In the City of Malibu, which had the highest expenses of any jurisdiction and a
disproportionate share of the expenses that were incurred statewide, an eight year rent rollback
was the subject of litigation.'’ No other ordinance is known to have implemented a rollback of
this length. The City of Carson, which had the second highest level of net expenditure -
$228,927, did not have any provisions for across-the-board increases, had vague fair return
standards, did not have an annual space fee, and has 2,543 mobilehome park spaces.
Approximately 6% of its residents reside in mobilehome parks. Approximately 1% of the city
budget was used for the mobilehome rent control program.

VI. Conclusion

Any claim that California’s mobilehome rent control programs cost local governments $45
million a year has no connection with reality. The actual net expenditures reported by 75 of the
89 jurisdictions in the fiscal year 1993-94 were approximately $1.4 million. The overall
expenditures were approximately $2.1 million. In the vast majority of California jurisdictions
with mobilehome rent control ordinances, the net costs are less than $0.10 per city or county
resident and the proportion of public expenditure is small relative to the population benefitted.
(See chart in Appendix B).

The administrative costs to help preserve the affordability of mobilehome space rentals are
small relative to the public interests at stake. It is generally accepted that increases in rents for
mobilehome spaces reduce the value of mobilehomes. A commonly used rule of thumb has been
that each $10 increase in monthly mobilehome space rents reduces the value of the mobilehome
by $1,000. A recent report commissioned by the park owners’ association notes estimates that
average mobilehome values would be $3,500 to $6,200 lower in the absence of rent controls.'*

A decline in the value of mobilehomes as a result of weakening or eliminating rent regulations
could lead to overall losses of equity for mobilehome owners in the range of hundreds of millions
of dollars. For example, a $5,000 reduction in the average value of only half of the mobilehomes
in rent controlled jurisdictions as a result of eliminating rent controls would lead to a loss in
equity in the range of $330 million among the mobilehome owners in those jurisdictions." (In

"7 Adamson Companies v, City of Malibu, 854 F.Supp.1476 (1994, U.S. District Court).

'8 Hirsch and Hirsch, "Mobilehome Park Vacancy Decontrol and Its Impact on Accessibility to Mobilehome
Housing”, p. 11 (1995). The authors discuss one analysis which indicated that mobilehome sales prices were $8,800
higher in rent controlled communities and stated that "Multivariate regression analysis of mobilehome sales prices
and rent control was able to explain 71% of the changes." Another study cited by the authors indicated that sales
prices were $3,531 higher for mobilehomes in rent controlled spaces.

'9 132,000/2 x $5,000 = $330 million. Most cities did not have data on the number of spaces under leases

that are exempt from rent regulations. However, data from cities which had such information indicated that
substantially less than half of all spaces were under exempt leases.

9
