Economic Health

While our local electronics industry strug-
gles, tax reform legislation that would dis-
advantage our domestic corporations in
their competition with foreign-based cor-
porations is actively being considered. We
propose reforming California’s unitary tax
to provide parity between domestic and
foreign multinational corporations, to pro-
tect the state general fund, and to create
incentive for economic development in
California. AB 2922

As Assembly Ways and Means Committee
chair, I author the California budget. As
always, I am committed to developing and
adopting a balanced, human state budget.
AB 2660

Family Health

We can facilitate the development of
healthy families by encouraging gentle,
natural birthing, promulgating the recom-
mendations of California’s birthing task
force, expanding parenting education, and
improving licensing laws for marriage and
family counselors. *

Emvinenmerntal Health

Considering the continuing toxic threat,
especially in the Silicon Valley, it is time to
create a safer environment by developing a
toxics prevention/protection model in
Santa Clara Valley, supporting Silicon Val-
ley’s burgeoning public-private partnership
prototype. *

Governmental Health

The principles of excellence that have revo-
lutionized private sector management tech-
nique and productivity can contribute to
excellence in public management through
the first annual statewide symposium for
state, city, and county and education man-
agers with ‘In Search of Excellence”
author Tom Peters keynoting. *

Delitical Health

With no expenditure or contribution limits,
spending in California Legislative Cam-
paigns has increased 750 percent in real
dollars in less than 30 years. In 1984, legis-
lative candidates spent $44 million. As a
result, the credibility and effectiveness of
the Legislature is questioned and legislators
are forced to spend valuable time fundrais-
ing just to stay in office. To assure that the
Legislature is most responsive to the public
interest, not special interests, let’s liberate
the Legislature from the political financial
arms race by adopting stringent political
campaign reform to limit contributions and
spending, and provide limited public
financing. AB 2681

Educational Health

The Legislature is charged with reviewing
California’s Master Plan for Higher Educa-
tion every 10 years. As chair of the Joint
Committee to Review the Master Plan, it is
clear that providing ready and equal access
to higher education, especially concerning
California’s community colleges, is a par-
ticularly crucial issue this year. We will be
introducing appropriate legislation based
on the committee’s recommendations. *

Public Safely

We will continue to seek means of prevent-
ing violence through our Californians Pre-
venting Violence Pilot Project, and by
encouraging the rehabilitation of troubled
youths in California Youth Authority de-
tention facilities through an individualized
educational program pilot project. AB
3145

Homan Surnirval

The challenge of peace-making intensifies
daily. We can encourage peace-makers by
designating August 6 as “Peace Day” in
California, designing a nuclear age educa-
tion curriculum in our schools, and imple-
menting a student exchange program
between California and the USSR. *

*Bill numbers have not yet been assigned.

John—

(_] I share your humanistic political vision.
Please enroll me in support of “Toward a
Healthier State—California ’86”.

{_] Please send me more information on the fol-
lowing parts of your program that particu-
larly interest me:

(_] Public Health—AIDS
(] Social Health—self-esteem
(_] Economic Health—unitary tax reform

[_] Family Health—birthing and

parenting

(_] Environmental Health—toxics

protection

[_] Governmental Health—excellence in

public managment

(] Political Health—campaign reform

{_] Educational Health—Master Plan

review

[_] Public Safety—violence prevention

[_] Human Survival—peace efforts

[_] Other (please specify)

(_] I will write my local legislators and Gover-
nor Deukmejian urging support for our
program.

I will write the editor of my local paper

urging the same.

[] I will recruit family members,
friends and colleagues (especially those out-
side of Santa Clara County) to support our
program.

Name
Address.
City, Zip.

Phone

Please detach, seal in envelope and mail to:
John Vasconcellos
State Capitol
Sacramento, CA 95814
