Californians for Personal Responsibility
California Insurance Commissioner Chuck Quackenbush, HONORARY CHAIR

e The initiative targets three groups of lawbreakers who cheat the system and then expect those
who play by the rules to pick up the tab.

e Proposition 213 stops drunk drivers, uninsured motorists and convicted felons from getting all
the benefits while bearing none of the responsibilities.

Wh Id P ition 213. do?
¢ It would prevent convicted felons from recovering awards for injuries they sustain while

committing or fleeing from their crimes.

¢ It would prevent convicted drunk drivers and uninsured motorists from suing law-abiding
citizens for huge monetary awards for pain and suffering (non-economic damages) if they are
involved in an accident.

e There is no reason someone convicted of a crime such as a carjacking involving murder
should be able to sue a bystander, another driver or anyone else if they are injured while
fleeing from his or her crime! Criminals should not be allowed to profit from their crimes!

¢ Too many people have had their lives, property and money taken by criminals. There’s no
justification for allowing felons to recover money for unintentional injuries they sustain while
committing felonies or fleeing from them.

e Driving drunk is illegal and puts lives in jeopardy. It’s not fair that the law allows these
drivers to get huge awards above and beyond their medical bills. Responsible, law-abiding
citizens should not be forced to pay so people who break the law can be rewarded.

e Driving without insurance is illegal, but uninsured motorists line our freeways and streets.
Because uninsured drivers aren’t responsible enough to buy liability insurance, they force
law-abiding drivers to buy $1 billion of Uninsured Motorist coverage every year -- on top of
their own liability insurance. It’s wrong to let uninsured motorists recover inflated awards
while they heap extra costs on insured drivers.

(over)

915 L Street, Suite 1050 * Sacramento, CA 95814 * (916) 449-2957 * FAX (916) 449-2959 * FPPC ID #951982

Internet Site: http://www.responsibility.org
