(3) These unrestricted
controls jeopardize the existence of affordable
mobilehome park housing for all Californians
and jeopardize continued employment and
small business-parkowners’ existence in
California; and

(4) Requiring the
provision of direct rental assistance subsidies
by requiring mobilehome park owners to
provide specified reduced rents for the poor,
together with the limitations on most
restrictive features of rent limitations which
have adversely affected the availability and
supply of such affordable mobile home
housing, is necessary to assure the continued
availability of affordable mobile home
housing to the poor; and

(5) The limitation of the

rental assistance subsidy provided in this .

Measure to not more than ten-percent of the
spaces in a single mobilehome park will
provide a reasonable amount of assistance to
needy mobilehome park tenants, without
unduly burdening the property interests of
the mobilehome. park owner.

(b) It is therefore the intent of the
People of the State of California in enacting
this Measure to do all of the following as a
matter of statewide concern:

(1) Require owners of
mobilehome parks to grant directly, without
governmental administration, rental
assistance subsidies to not more than ten-
percent of their mobilehome space tenants.

substantial investment in their homes, and it is this
investment which is at risk if this Initiative passes.
In fact, many parks are owned by millionaire
business entities who operate a number of parks.

This says: rent control is threatening the end of
the mobilehome industry. But the enemy is really
park owner greed and high rents. The reference to
“employment” insinuates that rent control will
cost jobs. Since most mobilehome rent control
ordinances have existed for at least 10 years, it
can be proved that they do not jeopardize the
industry.

This sounds nice, but the way the Initiative is
worded, this type of voluntary subsidy won’t
make any mobilehome residents better off. Read
on.

Note the difference from rent control. The
Initiative places a 10% cap upon the number of
residents who are “needy,” while rent control
helps all residents who are truly needy.

This says park owners will be “required” to give
subsidies. But since there is no enforcement by
the state or anyone else, and park owners will be
left to police themselves, there really is no
“requirement” at all.

PAGE A-
