OCI We ‘Yb 14°49 URHNGE LO PED HSSUL

Thoughts on Proposition 215

By John J. Fisher, MD, FACP
Sacramento Center for Hematology and Medical Oncology |

Proponents of Proposition 215, “The Medical
Use of Marijuana Initiative,” (viz., Californians for
Medical Rights) are trying to enlist the support of
physicians, particularly cancer and AIDS specialists.
Many of the testimonials they have gathered, includ-
ing those of Dr. Lester Grinspoon from the Depart-
ment of Psychiatry at Harvard, advocate marijuana
as medicine despite the lack of FDA approval,
arguing it alleviates nausea, vomiting, and pain while
stimulating the appetite.
As an oncologist, I am deeply committed to
alleviating nausea, yorniting and pain while stimulat-
ing the appetite and sense of well being inmy
patients. However, I am also convinced that the new
” generation of anti-nausea medication —- released
since the publication of the testimonials I have
read — provide safer and more effective ways of
achieving these goals. One of them, THC
(Marinol), which contains the same psycho-active
ingredient found in marijuana, has been available
since 1985 for nausea and since 1993 as an appetite
stimulant, The only possible drawback from the
patient’s perspective is that these medications come
in pill form and, therefore, do not afford the pleasure
associated with smoking, While itis true that some

_ cancer patients have difficulty swallowing, the
majority of those opting for reefers were using
marijuana before the onset of their illness.

Concerns about the efficacy of marijuana are
not, however, limited to the field of oncology. The
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, the American
Glaucoma Society, and the American Academy of
Ophthalmology have all reported seeing no evidence
of any benefit from the use marijuana in therapy.
Nevertheless, Proposition 215 extends usage to
“any illness for which matijuana provides relief,” not
only ignoring clinical evidence butalso obscuring the
boundaries and opening the door for a whole galaxy
of marginal health problems, not to mention those
merely looking for an excuse to get high. (Remem-
ber the ads claiming Kool cigarettes relieved cold
symptoms?)

Even more frightening is the fact that, under
Proposition 215, a written prescription would not be
required; all anyone would need to produce and
possess marijuana js verbal consent from an obliging
physician, one like Dr. Grinspoon, who claims
marijuana is “as safe as aspirin and it promotes safe
driving,”

Aside from questions of effectiveness, there
are large and obvious questions regarding safety.
Recent studies at UCD Medical Center reveal
increased incidence of head and neck cancers
among young marijuana users, Other studies have
discovered higher rates of childhood leukemia,
lower IQs and serious behavioral problems among
children born to women who use marijuana while
pregnant. Marijuana has also been linked to a six-
fold increase in schizophrenia, alterations in gonadal
function and long-term memory impairmentin
adolescents. Chemotherapy patients using marijyana
show a higher incidence of fungal/bacterial infé
tions, and frequently contract bronchitis from the
local irritation caused by marijuana smoke.

The fact is, not one of the more than ten
thousand articles on marijuana published in scientific
journals has shown it to be either safe or effective,
The favorable reports from doctors, patients and
nurses all appear to be anecdotal, and anecdotal
evidence does not qualify as scientific because the
placebo effect can’t be ruled out.

I feel this bill is chasing a 1980s idea totally,
discredited by 1990s scientific advances. Marijuana
as a drug is aconcept that has outlived its useful-
ness. Proposition 215 is nothing more than a smoke
screen for those who want to legalize drugs,
