Pasadena Schools Committee
260 S. Los Robles Ave., Suite 109, Pasadena, CA 91101

March 19, 1996

Dear Friend,

As teachers and members of the Pasadena School Board, we care deeply about education.
That’s why we’re writing to ask you to vote for Doug Kahn, Democrat for Congress
on March 26.

Every member of the Pasadena School Board has endorsed Doug Kahn for Congress.
The past year has been hard on our kids and schools, as extremists in Washington have slashed
school funding, cut school lunch and teacher training programs, and tried to eliminate college
loans.

Doug Kahn will fight against the right wing’s anti-education agenda.

Doug understands what it’s like to worry about your kid’s education. He knows how important
education is to our children’s futures. And he knows that college offers most kids their best

opportunity for economic security.

In short, we support Doug because he will fight for a pro-education agenda -- an agenda
that puts a high priority on quality schools, college loans, and job training.

One of the things that makes Doug unique is that he is truly committed to public service. Doug
doesn’t just talk about education, he works to improve education in this own community.

For example, Doug serves as a mentor in the Pasadena High School Graphic Arts Academy,
where he teaches kids the skills they need to get a job after graduation. Thanks to Doug’s
work, these kids stay in school and graduate.

That’s genuine public service, and Doug Kahn is the only candidate who does it. To him,
going to Congress is a way to continue serving the people.

For education, for our kids, please join us in voting for Doug Kahn on March 26.

Sincerely,
Bill Crowfoot Lisa Fowler Jacqueline Jacobs
Pasadena City Council, Pasadena Board of Education Pasadena Board of Education

Public School Teacher

George Padilla Anne Pursel Rey. George Van Alstine

Pasadena Board of Education Pasadena Board of Education Pasadena Board of Education

O cave te Mamnw

Jeanette Mann
Pasadena Community College Board

<> Paid for by the Doug Kahn for Congress Committee FEC #C00304048
