‘Excellence in education
is my highest priority.”

Jack Scott has spent a highly successful career
in education learning what works. He knows there is
much the Legislature can do to help local parents
and teachers make better schools:

Higher Goals: Scott supports a new emphasis on
phonics and other basic skills. He also agrees with
recent findings of weakness in California’s educa-
tional standards. “The greatest favor we can do for
children,” says Scott, “is to set their sights on higher
goals.”

Smaller classes: Jack Scott calls California’s over-
crowded classrooms “a disgrace.” But he wants
politicians to be honest about the cost of smaller
classes. “Adding thousands of new classrooms and
teachers isn’t free.” says Scott. “We can have smaller
classes or we can cut billions from education. We
can't do both. | prefer to invest in better schools.”

More charter schools: Jack Scott wants to free

more schools from bureaucratic rules that strangle

creativity and quality in the classroom. “We can 4
transform the whole system school-by-school,” says |
Scott, “if we concentrate on results instead of trying |
to dictate every step teachers and principals take.

That's the strength of charter schools.”

More computers in the classroom: California
leads the world in building and designing computers.
Yet we rank 45th in the nation in computers per stu-
dent — one for every 73 kids! “We built today’s high-
tech economy in the classroom,” says Scott. “We'll
lose it in the classroom, too — unless we find some
creative ways to give kids the tools to succeed.”

Use community colleges to help build prosperity:
Jack Scott wants California to learn from states that
use community colleges to strengthen their
economies. “Building links between college training
programs and growth industries accomplishes two
goals,” says Scott. “Industry gets the well-trained
labor force it needs. And students get jobs with good
wages and good futures.”

Scholarship set UP
in memory of "ar i
e presiden

so scholar gest this event

the first
szatns Aehtine for

rear to a law S
each year t0 8)
ch

‘such as minorities

‘For me and my family,
violence is a personal issue.’

We need more police and fewer guns!

For Jack Scott, violence is not something that
happens to other people. His youngest son, Adam,
was shot and killed by a careless gun user in 1993.
Ever since Adam’s death, Scott has worked with the
Coalition for a Non-Violent City to stem the rising
tide of guns and violence.

“Even the best efforts of private citizens can’t
succeed without strong laws and adequate police
protection,” says Scott. “That’s why | support three-
strikes and the death penalty. And that’s what | want
to do in Sacramento — help make our neighborhoods
safe.” ;

YES to common sense controls on guns: Jack
Scott supports the 15-day waiting period and back-
ground check before purchasing a gun. “This law has
kept thousands of people with criminal records and
serious mental illnesses from getting their hands on
deadly weapons,” says Scott. “I will oppose any
attempt to weaken or repeal it.”

NO to more concealed weapons: Jack Scott
opposes legislation to let almost everyone carry con-

cealed weapons. “Hundreds of thousands of people
packing guns on our streets would be a public safety
disaster,” says Scott. “Law enforcement must be
allowed to limit concealed weapons.”

YES to protecting our police officers: Jack
Scott sees no legitimate need for automatic assault
weapons or armor-piercing bullets. “These weapons
pose a deadly threat to us all,” says Scott, “and
especially to law enforcement officers. I'll fight to
keep them illegal in California.”

NO to Saturday-night specials: These cheap,
shoddy handguns are so unsafe they cannot be
legally imported into the U.S. “Saturday-night
specials have been used in countless crimes and
caused hundreds of deaths,” says Jack Scott. “We
should ban them in California.”

YES to more cops on the beat: Jack Scott wants
state government to break the bad habit of balancing
its budget by taking funds away from counties and
cities. This unsound policy forces cutbacks in local
services like law enforcement. “It’s got to stop,’ says
Scott. “We need to add police officers, not cut them.”

Man charged in death of PCC chief’s son

a 26-year-old film production as-
sistant, is scheduled this morning
in Los Angeles Municipal Court.

sunWwecn ___ “The evidence seems to Indicate (the shooting)

If convicted, he faces a maximum

Te tener er | Slayings Put Son oe
ae. mg) Educator on ie ith Wis friendly”
| Crusade for Z|
Gun Control |

“| am bold
= enough to sug

the

m celebrates one

ce en Police and Sheriff
bed homeless

College President Jack Scott, why
lost his son to a bullet and
grieved with the city when three }
boys were gunned down on

Halloween, s
with weapot

On Oct. 23, a Los Angeles
Choariff’e Denartment deputy arrived

“Tm proud to have the endorsement
of the California Organization of

