‘ok

People who know Assemblywoman Paula Boland say she listens, she cares and she acts.

That’s the kind of representative she is, and the kind of State Senator she promises to be for us.

As the first woman Chair of the Assembly Public Safety
Committee, Paula has written and passed some of the most
important laws on our books to help children, parents and
crime victims.

Laws like her “One-Strike and You’re Out” bill to put child molesters
away for good.

Her law that gives school principals the authority to expel
children who bring guns or knives to campus.

Her bill to give the victims of sex crimes the right to receive the
results of their attackers AIDS/HIV tests.

And, her vote on the floor of the Assembly to reduce class sizes
for grade school children.

The laws Paula has written and helped enact have made our schools
and neighborhoods safer and better places for all of us.

Paula Boland’s wisdom, commitment and effectiveness makes her an outstanding representative for us and the

best choice to be our next State Senator.

Paula Boland for State Senate. Working for Families.

ASSEMBLY BILL 2342

Authored by PAULA BOLAND

ASSEMBLY BILL 2815

Authored by PAULA BOLAND

incipals the Gin pe
Gives school princip eS vape victims the right

authority to &
bring guns or

xpel students who

40 receive the resulys of their

bnives to school: predators AIDS/HIV tesy

reduce class size
gives teachers and children
more opportunities

ASSEMBLY BILL 3707

Authored by PAULA BOLAND

California's tough “One-S te
and You're Out” law agains
child molesters.

“School principals now can remove
dangerous troublemakers from
campus thanks to Paula Boland.”

“Paula’s vote to

to excel in
the classroom.”

“Paula’s ‘One-Strike and You’re Out’
law against child molesters is making
our neighborhoods safer places

for our children.”

SENATE BILL 1777

0-Authored by PAULA BOLAND
Reduced class size down to

20 per class or less for Stade schoof

children in kindergarten

through 3rd erade,
