9. Patient Protection Act: Prop 216

ARTICLE 43

A. Requires insurers and HMOs to bear the cost of implementing and enforcing the measure, through fees or excessive
executive compensation, industry mergers, monopolization, for-profit conversions, and reductions of services and

ensures that implementation of the initiative costs taxpayers nothing.

\

—& Remaining funds will pay for community and trauma care, emergency, infectious disease control, preventive services,

HEALTH CARE INDUSTRY EARNS RECORD
PROFITS WHILE DENYING CARE

A Hospital mergers and acquisitions are big business.

> The $8.9 billion dollar merger of U.S. Healthcare, Inc.
and Aetna Life & Casualty, Inc., part of the growing trend
toward Big Medicine, will create the largest health care com-
pany in the U.S., providing care for 23 million people — 1 in
every 12 Americans. The founder of U.S. Healthcare,
Leonard Abramson, will reap about $920 million in stocks
and cash from the merger. (Jill Smolowe, “A Healthy
Merger?,” Time, Apr. 15, 1996)

> Health Systems International spent $20 million to pay
lawyers, investment bankers and other expenses related to a
merger with WellPoint Health Networks, a subsidiary of
non-profit Blue Cross of California. The merger failed when
the companies’ chairmen couldn’t agree on management
details. Had it succeeded, the merger would have accelerated
the conversion of many not-for-profit Blue Cross plans into
profit-oriented companies and pushed the 35 million Blue ,
Cross participants into HMOs and other managed care plans
—amove which promised to generate big payoffs across the
country. (Milt Freudenheim, “ Health Care Merger Teeters,”
New York Times, Dec. 7, 1995; David R. Olmos, “HMO
Cites $20 Million in Failed-Merger Costs,” L.A. Times, Feb.
13, 1996)

> Four HMOs alone each hold more than $1 billion in
excess cash. “Our problem is what to do with all the cash
that comes in,” Alan Bond, treasury director, Health
Systems, Inc., parent of Health Net. (Wall Street Journal,
Dec. 21, 1994) ,

> About $134 billion in health care mergers and acquisi-
tions have occurred in the past four years. Despite the sup-
posed oversupply of hospital beds, Columbia/HCA, the

access to care for seniors facing Medicare cuts, and individuals and families who lose health coverage with job loss.

world’s largest hospital chain, paid an average of $343,000
per hospital bed in its 1995 acquisitions, a 120% increase

_ over 1994, (Don DeMoro, “Abdicating Health Care Policy to

the Market,” Institute for Health & Socio-Economic Policy,
Apr. 1996)

Emergency room care is disappearing.

> Four of five hospitals in northern San Diego County
refuse to provide non-emergency care for the uninsured
working poor. The fifth says it may also soon drop care for
the working poor. (San Diego Union Tribune, Apr. 25, 1996)

A The stock-based wealth only of 23 health care executives
would pay for either:

> Insurance for over six million people — about 14% of the
nation’s uninsured, and about 18% of the entire population

of California; or

> Funding for AIDS research at the Federal government’s
1995 level for the next five years; or

_> The entire Los Angeles County School District budget—

which provides education for a population base of 10 million
—for 22 years. (“Abdicating Health Care Policy to the Market,”
Institute for Health & Socio-Economic Policy, Apr. 1996)

CEO stock and pay 2.5% -

over 2 million i
Mergers and Acquisitions 1% of assets in

4 transaction
Monopolization 1 396 of revenue
Downsizing 1% of revenue based on

number of beds closed

¢

10% of assets in
transaction

Non-profit to For-profit
conversion

