Monica's Issues

Donna Dailey Alvarez has identified key issues affecting residents in Santa Monica.
Here are some of her positions on city policies:

PUBLIC SAFETY

Donna believes that the safety of our residents
is of prime importance. She remembers when

residents felt safe in their homes — when people

could stroll in our neighborhoods at night. That
is why Donna:

e Supports the new Police/Fire Department
bond initiative.

Supports the review and enforcement of
current ordinances (particularly those
concerning feeding programs and sleeping
in public places).

Supports the enforcement of panhandling
ordinances.

Supports and encourages the city to assume
responsibility for cleaning and sanitizing
streets, doorways, and public areas.

TRAFFIC

Donna knows that any plan that eases congestion

in one neighborhood at the expense of another
is not good for the city as a whole. That is why
Donna:

e Recommends the city hire an impartial,
professional engineer to develop a plan to
improve Santa Monica’s traffic flow. As your
Council representative, Donna will VOTE TO
SUPPORT the engineer’s recommendations.
She wants to improve traffic ‘‘planning”’
(currently designed by self-appointed
amateurs), as well as eliminate those
annoying yellow sticks (currently choking
intersections and collecting debris), and
eliminate the too frequent redesigning and
restriping of city streets.

LOCAL BUSINESS AND ECONOMY

e Donna encourages Santa Monica businesses

to bid on city contracts. She will insist that the
City Council consider the higher costs of
operating a business in Santa Monica when
reviewing bids for city projects. The city
should never again be put into the position of
awarding a contract for redesign of the city’s
logo to an out-of-town firm.

SOCIAL SERVICES

Donna will insist on a citywide review of all
city-sponsored providers of social services

to determine areas of overlap. She will work
to end ‘‘free spending” by the myriad of
overlapping social service providers. We must
streamline the delivery of city-supported
programs to eliminate duplication and
effectively utilize city funds.

HOUSING

Donna believes city-financed housing should
go first to Santa Monica residents.

She opposes ‘‘second dwelling units’ in the
city’s single family (R1) districts.

PUBLIC ART

Donna believes that instead of paying a one
percent “‘Art Tax,’’ the city should encourage
businesses and developers to select, purchase,
and install public-accessible art on site.
Public art selection should not be dictated by
a small group of political appointees and
definitely should not be funded by tax dollars.
She opposes art objects on the beach that
could endanger our children’s safety.

ye An Independent Community Leader

Yourl1st Choice For Santa Monica City Council

Paid for by: Alvarez for City Council, 3329 Virginia Avenue, Santa Monica, CA 90404, Polly Benson-Brown, Treasurer |.D. #961796
