by mobilehome park management (the pre-
subsidy monthly rent level). The pre-subsidy
monthly rent level of a qualified tenant who is
receiving or is entitled to receive, a rental
assistance subsidy, may be increased and shall
be decreased, as appropriate, from time to
time, so that the pre-subsidy monthly rent
level shall not, at any time, exceed the average
monthly rent level charged for all spaces in the
mobilehome park then occupied with
mobilehomes.

Only one rental assistance
subsidy shall apply to any mobilehome space
regardless of how many qualified tenants who
reside in a mobilehome space, so that no
mobilehome space shall be entitled to more
than one ten-percent discount from the pre-
subsidy monthly rent level.

(d) “Exempt space” as used in
Article 4.5 of this part means (i) any space in a
mobilehome park which is not occupied by a
mobilehome as of the effective date of this
Measure, or (ii) any space which is, as of the
effective date of this Measure, exempt from a
mobilehome park rent control law as a result
of any lease or rental agreement covering such
space including, without limitation, a rental
agreement described in section 798.17 of this
Chapter.

(e) “Mobilehome park rent
control” as used in Articles 4.4 and 4.5 of this
part means any ordinance, rule, regulation, or
initiative measure, adopted by any city, county
or city and county, which establishes a
maximum amount that the management of a
mobilehome park may charge any tenant or
resident for rent.

(f) “Decontrolling event” as used
in Article 4.5 of this part means, with respect

spaces. But who establishes that average level?
The park owner, of course! Note that, since no
spaces can be immediately transformed from
“rent controlled” to “subsidy controlled,” there
will always be a period of time, after rent control
ends, where the park owner is free to raise the
rent to whatever he wishes. If and when the
subsidy ever takes effect, it will only provide a
10% reduction of the uncontrolled rent “level”
previously “established” by mobilehome park
management.” For example, if an average
current rent controlled rent of $250.00 goes up to
$400.00 as spaces are decontrolled over several
years, by the time that the 10% subsidy kicks in
the rent will only be reduced $40.00. The net rent
increase will be $110.00!

All newly constructed spaces following passage
of the Initiative shall be “exempt.” All spaces
subject to a lease of longer than 12 months as of
the date of passage shall also be “exempt.”
These spaces shall be immediately removed from
any future possibility of rent control protection
should the Initiative pass. (See 798.46.2(d)).

Thus, all ordinances throughout the state will be
subject to the Initiative.

This definition lists three events which will
trigger the loss of rent control protection.

PAGE A-7
