1993 special election. However, the Governor and Legislature
refused to give voters the option to keep the top brackets
permanently in place.

That's why a bipartisan coalition put Prop. 217 on the
ballot. They believe that voters deserve the option of providing
an $860 million boost to schools and communities instead of
allowing the top brackets to expire so that the state’s richest
169,000 taxpayers receive some small change.

“The initiative is going to hurt
small business.”

There is no evidence that Prop. 247 will hurt small
businesses. The overwhelming majority of small businesses
will benefit.

Opponents of Prop. 217 have used the claims that the
initiative will negatively affect small businesses to hide the,
fact that the expiration of the top brackets only applies to
wealthy taxpayers—those earning average incomes of
$488,000. They are among the taxpayers who saw their
incomes rise 70% during the 1980s, while incomes of the
lower 80% of taxpayers grew little or not at all.

According to the Franchise Tax Board, 1.5 million income
tax returns were filed reporting profit from business income.
The average amount of business income reported averaged
$19,000—an amount not even close to incomes paid in the
top brackets. In fact, only a handful of taxpayers who report
business income—less than 1%—report income over
$400,000 and would continue to pay taxes in-the top brackets
under Prop. 217.

California businesses have been granted new tax breaks
from the Governor and the Legislature since 1991. These tax
breaks will cost $2.2 billion this year. By restoring funds to
cities and counties, Prop. 217 will increase the revenue
available for public investment that is essential to business
growth. Prop. 217 will decrease the pressure for additional
local fees and taxes that impact all taxpayers—including small
businesses.

“There are no guarantees on how the
money will be spent.”

Roughly half of the total revenues raised by Prop. 217 will
go to schools, pursuant to the provisions of Prop. 98. The rest
of the revenues will go to communities to replace property tax
revenues lost to the state since 1992. Prop. 217 preserves
local control by allowing local governments to determine how

these revenues can best be used to meet the funding
shortfalls they face. Prop. 217 contains a very specific
formula that automatically allocates its revenues to cities and
counties proportionally, according to the amount lost when the
state began to take billions of dollars in local property tax
revenues.

Prop. 217 opponents warn against “more money [going]
down a bureaucratic black hole,” and say “the last thing we
need is to send any more money to the Sacramento
politicians.” That’s exactly what Prop. 217 will help prevent.
Under Prop. 217, Sacramento will not be allowed to drain
additional local property tax revenues from communities to
balance the state budget. And $450 million a year will be sent
directly to local governments, not to Sacramento.

“It would give us the highest personal income
tax rates in the nation.”

California’s 11% top bracket income tax rate is among the
nation’s highest, although the state is average in the
percentage of income collected in taxes. California’s top

. brackets are in line with attempts to maintain fairness in

overall state taxation.

The 99% of taxpayers who would not receive a tax break
upon expiration of top brackets have paid more than their fair
share of taxes. For example, sales tax increases adopted
since 1991 will cost consumers $4.1 billion this year. Vehicle
license tax increases since 1991 will cost drivers $822 million
this year. And renters are paying $520 million more in income
taxes this year due to suspension of the renter’s credit,
according to the California Budget Project.

Since income taxes collected from the top brackets are
deductible from federal income taxes, any savings from a
state tax cut would be reduced by 39.6%—the top federal
income tax rate.

“It messes with property taxes.”

The claim by Prop. 217 opponents that the intiative has
any effect on property taxes is simply false. The state
Legislative Analyst has studied the issue in depth. The
Analyst’s conclusion about the property tax impact of the
measure is short and to the point. After describing the
revenues which would go to cities, counties and special
districts, the Analyst states:

“The measure also prohibits the state from shifting additional
property tax revenues away from these local governments.”
