The BEMNANEs says “YES on 1.”

@ Measure on L.A. ballot
would give the LAPD room
to grow — with a big payoff
in public safety.

it plans to add about 2,500 more. Now
those officers need something from the city

go to build four new police stations. The
cost in added property taxes would
modest. In return, the public would get all
the benefits of better infrastructure —
including a long-awaited sixth station for
the San Fernando Valley.
Adding that new station alone should i
improve response time by reducing the prepare cases for prosecutors, garages, day

area that each Valley division must serve. pire for emergency duty and much else.
More generally, the new and expanded Opponents of Propssition 1 don’t deny
facilities would improve morale and the overcrowding, but they say big new
efficiency. stations aren’t the answer. They seem to
'AU$9 a year in new taxes for the average. prefer the alternative of dispersing the force
$160,000 home, Proposition 1 would be 2 into lots of substations, using existing space
genuine bargain for the taxpaying public. as much as possible. The department may
No informed obse-ver ‘of the do this anyway (whether ornot itbuilds new
denies that the department has an over~ stations) as a way of bringing officers closer
crowding jee ap ts act mt Policy apie rt a eae Pertie supposed
Department study conclu that every .
station is too small for its present staffing, os of substations ee Cone
‘ot to mention the staffing forescen in jowever, isany enous guteogs. Te
Mayor Richard Riordan’s FAPD expan- CY, can't expect to get all this space font
sla re And ach sash mone
; Taidence of the squeeze can. be seen in own staff — at the Ve : aan
double-parked cars at the Van Nuys station pity eg phone and greet People at the
parking Io, deleting, showers and Granted, the city oversold its last police
shoeshines. A half-dozen detectives at Van sie Bees lex wae’ 8 OEo. pag ed
os ul a ul
Ajo gare he Got Pont yeoman
r i! S, iM
teh ge i department to 29 resentment against the city for past mis-
f noc oe 9.116 % takes. This time around, money is expressly
ge eet i ag workin a square feet. allocated in the measure for each of the
area 0) station will have to be tri- promised police stations (at $35 million
evel to accommodate the eventual work each) so that thbit funding will not be
wallowed uj other projects.

_ This is a problem that cannot be solved “The city rf ith eden prepared to
simply by putting more officers on the design and build stations than it was in
pe though every effort should be mad 1989. The LAPD has a facilities planning
to keep mae icers on —_ pati than group in place, and the council isexpediting
behind cer tons ad Mee eteage of the proces toe oe aero |

iti mimi . in ort, 10on
support services that, stations provide — makes promises that the city will be able to
locker rooms, meeting rooms, civilian keep, and it will make all the city’s residents
staff, detectives to investigate crimes and _ safer.

Los Angel
4 les Daily N
Citizens for a Safer Los é M ly News
a Safer Los Angeles 201 N. Figueroa #1470 Los Angeles CA 90012 © jay 30, 1995
ep 25
