Sample column for state federation presidents to send to newspapers for publishing on their
op-ed pages. This column focuses on public services and should be retyped with a short,
introductory cover letter:

There are many candidates running for election this year who would like voters to believe that
government -- and, by extension, the employees who help deliver these services -- is the root cause
of all of their problems

These politicians blame a breakdown in families on efforts by social service workers to help
those in need. They cite declining test scores as evidence that teachers aren't doing their jobs. They
critcize government regulators for trying to enforce clean-air, clean-water and worker safety laws,
saying that these efforts hurt economic growth. They tell voters that privatization of public services
is some magic cure for all of the problems that face government -- as though private-sector workers
are inherently more efficient and caring than public-sector employees.

Government bashing may be an easy way to win elections, but it is wrong.

At best, these politicians are presenting a misguided view to voters about the value of public
services. At worst, they are legitimizing, encouraging and even provoking those who would vent
their frustrations with government in the most violent and tragic of ways.

Public services are not perfect. No one knows this better than those of us who work in the
public sector. The (name of your union) is an organization representing more than (number) public
sector employees working in education, health care and other government agencies throughout our
state.

More than anyone else, our members want to improve public services. Our members want to
eliminate waste, improve efficiency. They want the efforts that they make on the job to be as
effective and as beneficial as possible for the people they serve.

Yet, rather than supporting our members in these efforts, many candidates for offices at all
levels of government hold up public sector workers as scapegoats for failed policies.

Some of our toughest critics in the state legislature and in Congress are the same lawmakers
who consistently deny us the support, resources and tools we need to do our jobs better and more
efficiently.

Our members have watched in disbelief as Speaker Newt Gingrich and his supporters have
used the rallying cry of "getting government off the backs of the people" to try and roll back
environmental regulations, OSHA protections and to block an increase in the minimum wage.

Our health care members were appalled by Republican efforts to finance a $270 billion tax cut
for the wealthy by cutting health care services the elderly.

Our members who work in education are astonished by a political party that publicly claims to
be pro-family but has repeatedly tried to cut Head Start funding, slash student loans and block
passage of the Family and Medical Leave Act. Even Bob Dole has gotten into the act with a direct
critism of teachers during his acceptance speech at the Republican national convention.

If there was any doubt of the disdain some politicans have for public employees, it was put to
rest last winter when Newt Gingrich and his supporters shut the federal government for more than
a month and used government employees as cannon fodder in their fight with President Clinton.

Public employees are dedicated and hard working. They have earned recognition and respect
for the important contributions that make to improving the lives of our state's citizens. They want
to improve public service, and they deserve support from all lawmakers in these efforts. They do
not deserve to be ridiculed by a small group of politicians who seek to advance their careers by
attacking government and the people who work for it.

e-
