3

Current law says that lawyers, law firms, and parties to a lawsuit can be
penalized for filing actions without legal support or evidence. Proposition 207
weakens a judge's ability to control frivolous lawsuits. It does not allow parties
to be sanctioned. While it says sanctions "shall" be imposed, it turns around
and prohibits sanctions unless a frivolous action is solely without merit or done
solely to harass the other side. Federal law, which is much more effective
against frivolous lawsuits, allows a judge to impose sanctions if an action or
pleading is "presented for any improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause
unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation." And federal
courts have ruled that a sanction is appropriate whether the pleading or motion
is frivolous in whole or in part.

Why should a lawyer be able to escape a penalty for frivolous lawsuits by
showing that 1% of the suit had some merit or that only 99% of the lawsuit
was intended to harass an opposing party? Why should a judge be blocked
from penalizing a party to a frivolous lawsuit as well as that party's
attorney if the judge believes both are responsible for abusive use of the
courts? Why should voters give the 207 sponsors the weak frivolous lawsuit
law that benefits predatory lawyers only instead of a stronger law, like the
federal law, which benefits taxpayers, consumers, and good lawyers
together.

Proposition 207 prohibits a lawyer who receives any sanction at all for a
frivolous action from receiving any fee for work on the case. While this might
sound like a way to prevent frivolous lawsuits, it may be ruled such an
excessive punishment that a court would find it unconstitutional. A lawyer
could work on a case for a year and because of one frivolous motion be denied
all compensation. Knowing this, a judge would understandably be reluctant to
impose any sanction for frivolous pleadings. If an attorney gets a judge to rule
this section unconstitutional, the rest of the initiative will remain in effect and
lawyers will still have prevented the Legislature from protecting consumers by
controlling excessive attorney fees. Importantly, by enacting a weak law via an
initiative, lawyers will have increased their protection from any future
legislation designed to make real improvements in frivolous litigation laws.
That is because the proposition requires future amendments be passed by a two-
thirds vote in the Legislature instead of the normal majority vote!

Why should voters enact a law that will make it harder to control frivolous
lawsuits because it will 1) seldom if ever be used 2) difficult to correct
because of the two-third vote requirement, or will be entirely eliminated
because it is unconstitutional?

The Legislative Analyst and Department of Finance have concluded that the
