Right to Vote on Taxes Act
Page 2

[Annotation: Regional governments were included to ensure that provisions of Act
apply to all governmental entities other than the state itse/f.]

(c) "Special District" means an agency of the state, formed pursuant to
general law or special act, for the local performance of governmental or
proprietary functions with limited geographic boundaries including, but
not limited to, school districts and redevelopment agencies.

[Annotation: Even more expansive definition than Proposition 62. No government,
except the state itself, is exempt]

(d) "Special tax" means any tax imposed for specific purposes including
taxes imposed for specific purposes which are placed into a general
fund.

[Annotation: This reinforces language of Rider v. San Diego dealing with special
taxes. The key is the purpose of the funding, not the name of the bank account. A
number of analyses of Proposition 218 prepared by local governments have stated
that the revised transportation tax in Santa Clara County (proposing “dual” measures
on the ballot) would be illegal under this definition.]

SEC. 2. Local Government Tax Limitation.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Constitution:

(a) All taxes imposed by any local government shall be deemed to be either
general taxes or special taxes. Special purpose districts or agencies,
including school districts, shall have no power to levy general taxes.

[Annotation: This provision merely reflects language of Supreme Court in the Rider
v. San Diego decision saying special districts, by their special nature, have no power
to levy general taxes.]

(b) No local government may impose, extend or increase any general tax
unless and until such tax is submitted to the electorate and approved by
a majority vote. A general tax shall not be deemed to have been
increased if it is imposed at a rate not higher than the maximum rate so
approved. The election required by this subdivision shall be consolidated
with a regularly scheduled general election for members of the governing
body of the local government except in cases of emergency declared by
a unanimous vote of the governing body.
