Jack Scott: A leader’s leader!

When Jack Scott came to Pasadena City College
in 1987, the college was drifting. Morale was low.
Buildings were crowded and deteriorating. A proud
institution was in desperate need of strong leadership.

Jack Scott’s vision and energy transformed the
college. By bringing all sides together, Scott was able
to solve even the toughest problems. He rebuilt the
campus. Pushed academic standing to new heights.
And put P.C.C.'s financial house in order.

When he resigned in 1995, to become
Distinguished Professor of Higher Education at
Pepperdine University, P.C.C. was recognized as one of
the best community colleges in the nation. And a grate-
ful community hailed Jack Scott as “a leader's leader.”

2,
W ches

OI
aR

“7 don’t approve of the harsh partisanship in
the Legislature. That’s not my style. ’'ma
Democrat who has worked with mostly
Republican Trustees. We succeeded because we
focused on common goals and treated each
other with respect.”

Scott had the vision to plan for the next century:

Jack Scott developed a $100 million Master Plan
to meet college and community needs into the 21st
Century. Then he worked with every faction in a diverse
district to turn vision into reality.

Today P.C.C. is two-thirds of the way through
Scott’s building program. Gleaming new facilities dot the
campus — from a desperately-needed parking structure
to a prize-winning library. Still more new buildings are ris-
ing in satellite locations. And virtually all funds needed to
complete the Master Plan have been secured.

Scott insisted on academic excellence:

Jack Scott expanded course offerings in English
and mathematics by more than 30%. He increased the
percentage of classes taught by full-time college faculty.
And he created a special honors program for students
preparing to transfer to the University of California.

Results in the classroom were dramatic:

For eight straight years P.C.C. has ranked first or
second among the hundreds of community colleges
competing in the prestigious National College Math
Contest — including four national championships!
P.C.C’s fine debate team also won national honors.

100% of students completing P.C.C.’s honors pro-
gram have successfully transferred to a U.C. campus.
As a result, P.C.C. ranks in the top 10% of California
colleges in sending students on to four-year colleges
and universities.

Community college students who transfer to the
California State University system compete with many
students who had stronger high school records. But
P.C.C. students are so well-prepared that they earn
higher grades than classmates admitted directly to
CSU as freshmen.

Scott stressed preparing students for good jobs:

Jack Scott emphasized training students for work
in today’s fast-changing economy. He built a new
Community Education Center to expand facilities for
work-training programs. The college now offers 65
vocational education programs, many in cooperation
with private industry. And P.C.C’s superb reputation
attracts thousands of students from other community
college districts.

“P’m running because I enjoy solving tough
problems. I like people, and I like bringing

them together to get things done. That’s what I
want to do in Sacramento.”

P.C.C. prospered under Scott
while other colleges faltered:

Many colleges saw enrollments plummet after the
“baby bust.” But P.C.C. continued to grow and is now the
third largest single-campus community college in the
nation.

Recession and shrinking state support brought
hard times for community colleges. Many were forced to
cut class offerings. Others had to lay off teachers.
Dozens of colleges were placed on the state’s fiscal
“watch” list. Several went bankrupt!

Jack Scott used fiscal discipline
to balance the budget in tough times:

Scott’s skillful management saved P.C.C. from
the hard times that crippled other colleges: Balanced
budgets. No lay-offs. No salary cuts.

The college was run so efficiently that yearly sur-
pluses were set aside to help pay for badly-needed new
facilities. Scott left P.C.C. with an operating reserve of
more than $6,000,000 and a building fund of nearly $5.7
million.

Scott saved taxpayers millions of dollars:

Instead of depending only on tax dollars, Jack
Scott went after private funds to help pay for campus
expansion. Under Scott, P.C.C. raised more private
money in eight years than any other community college
in California—over $10,000,000!

