on Act: Prop 216 | Reverses the Dangerous Short Staffing of Health Facilities

ARTIGE ENS

A. Requires all health care facilities to be safely staffed with fully trained and licensed medical personnel.

A. Directs the Department of Health Services (DHS) to issue emergency regulations within 6 months aetine safe
staffing standards based on the individual needs of each patient.

4

P

condition of licensure.

& Registered nurses are being replaced by aides with less
training and fewer skills, undermining the quality of care
and endangering patients.

Marilyn Pon, an RN at Alta Bates Medical Center in
Berkeley, CA, says that patients have had strokes which °
haven't been reported in a timely fashion because there were
too few qualified people to check on patients regularly. “They
lay there for hours before anyone noticed.” (Steve Twedt,

“Is a Cheaper Hospital Staff More Costly?” Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette, February 11, 1996)

Interviews with Massachusetts nurses in 1994 attributed
15 patient deaths to inadequate nurse staffing. (Dolores
Kong, “Nurses Say Patients Feeling the Pain of Staffing
“Cutbacks,” Boston Globe, Oct. 31, 1994) {

California ranks 49th in the U.S. in the rate of registered
nurses to patients. Only Utah has fewer RNs per patient,
according to U.S. Census and Commerce Department data.

> Complaints from RNs to the Board of Registered Nursing
regarding safe patient care has surged to a record number the
past 13 months. (Craig Rose, “Medic! Area Nurses Warn of
Problems in the System,” San Diego Union-Tribune, Apr. 1,
1996)

Current California law only sets staffing requirements for
the most severely ill patients in critical care units. Even in
these areas, some businesses routinely violate the law.
Stronger penalties are needed. j

Sutter Roseville Medical Center in Roseville, CA, was
cited in April, 1996, by the DHS for 26 separate incidents of
unsafe staffing in a three month period in its Cardiac

Intensive Care Unit and its Intensive Care Unit. (Kathy

Establishes strong enforcement mechanisms. All facilities must annually certify compliance with the standards as a

Robertson, “Sutter Roseville Is Cited for Understaffing
ICUs,” Sacramento Business Journal, Apr. 29, 1996)

Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital at Stanford was
cited in January 1996 for inadequate staffing 42 times in
November and again 13 different times in December in its
Intensive Care Unit for premature babies and other high-risk
patients. (Don Kazak, “Hospital Cited by the State Again,”
Palo Alto Weekly, Jan. 10, 1996)

& Specific safe staffing requirements do not exist for all

other hospital areas, nursing homes, medical offices, same

day surgery centers, or other health care facilities.

“Suzanne Lobb left a Kaiser Permanente medical center
in San Diego at 8:30 one evening a few years ago relieved
that her husband, Dwight, had just come through abdomi-
nal surgery...Five hours later, she got a phone call from the
center, Her husband, turning 47 that day, had died of inter-
nal bleeding that she said went undiscovered for hours
despite his repeated complaints of sharp pain... This occurred,
she alleged, because staff reductions designed to cut hospital
costs left the remaining nurses overloaded.” (Spencer Rich,
“At Hospitals, Cutting Costs or Corners?,” Washington Post,
May 27, 1996)

“We spent a total of 27 weeks in the hospital. We had
things happen, like being told to pay for a baby-sitter to
watch our son if we wanted to leave. We would go for 8 hours
without seeing a nurse.” (Letter from parent to CNA
“Patient Watch” Program)

“A friend is an emergency care dispatcher. One day he
received a call from a woman saying she needed immediate
_help as she was bleeding and couldn’t get it to stop. What
flabbergasted him was the origin of the 911 call — a patient
room at the hospital.” (Letter from a registered nurse to
“Patient Watch”)
