(1) The tenant resides in a
mobilehome park in the State of California;
and

(2) The tenant is a very
low income household, as defined in section
50105 of the California Health and Safety
Code; and

(3) The tenant is not
delinquent with any rent payments, has
established a legal residency in a mobilehome,
and owns and occupies such mobilehome as
the tenant’s principal place of residence; and

(4) The tenant, including
all other residents regularly residing in the
mobilehome, is in compliance with all rules
and regulations of the mobilehome park and
the tenant’s rental agreement; and

(5) The tenant is not
receiving any Federal, State, or local housing
assistance, including but not limited to
assistance under Chapter 8 (commencing with
section 1404a) of Title 42, United States Code;
The Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974 (Public Law 93-383); Chapter 45
(commencing with section 3601) of Title 42,
United States Code; or any other
governmental housing assistance program
administered by the Department of Housing
and Urban Development or as provided by
other state or federal laws or programs.

(c) “Rental assistance subsidy” as
used in Article 4.4 of this part means a ten-
percent discount from the monthly rent
charged for the mobilehome space occupied by
one or more qualified tenants, as established

The standards described in this paragraph shall
vary from County to County. The bottom line is
this: the resident must qualify under HUD
Section 8 requirements to receive the assistance.
Only those residents who are at the extreme
lowest end of the income scale will qualify.
Anyone with a job will have trouble getting the
assistance. The income requirements are
published at Title 25, Sec. 6932 of the California
Administrative Code. As an example, a Fresno
County applicant would need a gross income of
less than $13,850.00 to qualify.

This would exclude homeowners who have been
forced to move elsewhere but are still selling their
mobilehome in the park.

Could the park owner require performance of
unreasonable rules or regulations by denying rent
assistance?

Thus, anyone already receiving assistance is
ineligible to receive the Initiative subsidy.

The 10% discount sounds good. But it is only a
10% reduction from the rent amount “established
by mobilehome park management.” The only
qualification is that the pre-subsidy rent cannot
exceed the average rent “level” charged for all

PAGE A-6
