(i «70 Vars of Serie .

iiCal-Tax

——— 1926 - 1996

Proposition 217's Harmful Effects on Redevelopment

Proposition 217 contains language that could prohibit any future reduction in any city,
county or special district's share of all property taxes collected in the county.
Redevelopment agencies would be harmed by this measure in two ways, potentially
halting any new redevelopment project:

* First, like any local agency, redevelopment agencies would not be allowed to
increase their percentage of countywide property tax collections, because that
would cause other local agencies’ shares to diminish, which would be prohibited.
See Cal-Tax’s “Proposition 217's Harmful Effects on Property Taxes” for a full
explanation. :

* Second, by interaction with current law, redevelopment agencies are not included in
the definition of “local agency” used by the initiative. This not only guarantees that
redevelopment agencies cannot increase their share of property tax, upon which
their projects are dependent, it also denies them the protection from property tax
shifts which the measure attempts to provide for other local agencies.

Proposition 217, among other things, would create Revenue and Taxation Code
Section 97.42(a), which would read as follows:

97.42 (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for each fiscal year commencing with the
1996-97 fiscal year, the auditor shall not reduce the proportionate share of total property tax
revenues collected in the county that is allocated to Local agencies below the corresponding
proportionate share for those Local agencies for the 1995-96 fiscal year.

This section would be part of existing Chapter 6 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, ©
which begins with existing Section 95 and ends with Section 100. Section 95 sets forth
the definitions to be used throughout the chapter. Nothing in Proposition 217 changes
these definitions:

95. Definitions
For the purposes of this chapter:
(a) “Local agency” means a city, county, and special district.

Redevelopment agencies are conspicuously absent from the definition of local agency
used in Proposition 217. While proponents of Proposition 217 claim that the property
tax freeze does not apply to each agency, only to the pooled share of all local non-
school agencies, this definition makes clear that redevelopment agencies are not
included in that pool.

September 4, 1996
