November 7, 1995

Dear GSMOL Member:

: From the moment that we first learned that certain park owners were secking
to pass a "Mobilehome Fairness Initiative," GSMOL anticipated that those same park owners
would make the annual cost of administering mobilehome rent control ordinances into a major
campaign issue. The Board of Directors thus commissioned Dr. Kenneth K. Baar, a noted rent
control expert, to begin preparing a survey of the actual costs and expenses incurred by those
cities and counties which have rent control. The Board knew that this would take time, and
wanted to be ready with some solid ammunition to counter park owner claims that rent control
is t00 expensive to maintain.

Within the last few weeks, park owners have begun to distribute campaign
literature which claims that the annual cost of mobilehome rent control in California may be
a high as $45,000,000.00. We are certain to be hearing this again and again as the campaign
continues. They will try to use these inflated expense f igures to sway voters to support their
initiative. GSMOL members will need to be able to cite concrete Statistics in order to show
voters in their area that these claims are false.

The enclosed study is sent to you compliments of GSMOL. It provides you with
specific data which can be used to show that the annual cost of all mobilehome rent ordinances
combined is just $1,500,000,00. This amounts to an average of $18,500.00 per jurisdiction,
which is a very small part of the average budget for most cities and counties. Mr. Baar’s
findings illuminate a fundamental truth about mobilehome rent control: that the creation of
local rent protections for some 130,000 mobilehome rental spaces in California will NOT result
in excessive or unreasonable costs to the city or county, or to the taxpayers.

This study is for your information and use. It is a valuable tool which shall help
us defeat this dastardly initiative. It has been Prepared for your benefit. Read it, and use it
well! Let’s be ready to tell the truth to the people of California about the real costs of
mobilehome rent control, Let’s unite together to defeat the phoney "Rental Assistance
Initiative.”

Very truly yours,

AVE HENNESSY
President

-LIBRARY (MGI)-

“ans and Rovernment Informat*”

G1SDAVE.026 OCT 12 1998

Niven OF CALIFORNIA
“LOS ANGELES
