Prop 216 Ends Arbitrary Denial of Care Common to HMOs

ARTICLES 5,6 &7

‘

& Ensure that patients receive a second opinion from a qualified health Professional, based ona physical eram, iii ;

services recommended by their doctor are denied.

Require written criteria for denial of care, determined by appropriate health unnateny and based on id

clinical criteria, that are sida tant bl for public inspection.

Patients today more frequently face denials of care by

managed care cost-cutters.

> According to a recent report by the Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation, managed care patients are 40% more likely to
report problems getting treatment, needed diagnostic tests,
or seeing a specialist when needed. (David Hilzenrath,
“Cutting Costs — Or Quality,” Washington Post National
Weekly Edition, Aug. 28-Sept. 3, 1995)

Arbitrary care denials and reckless cost-cutting have
taken and threatened lives.

Christine DeMeurers died of breast cancer at age 34 after
Health Net, California’s second largest HMO, improperly
denied her an expensive bone-marrow transplant and pres-
sured her doctor to reverse his support of the treatment. An
arbitration panel called Health Net’s actions “extreme and
outrageous behavior exceeding all bounds usually tolerated
in a civilized society.” (Michael A. Hiltzik, “HMO Slapped
with $1 Million Judgement in Cancer Case,” L.A. Times,
Oct..18, 1995; Eric Larsen, “The Soul of an HMO,” Time,
Jan. 22, 1996)

Lilia M. Reyes’ colon cancer was misdiagnosed as irritable
bowel syndrome. Her HMO, Group Health Association, Inc.,
required her doctor to submit a special request before Reyes
could see a specialist and take the test that might have
exposed the disease. Since such requests had been denied in
the past by the HMO gatekeepers, the doctor didn’t bother to
request it. Reyes’ cancer was not diagnosed until a year later,
after the tumor blocking her colon required emergency

_ surgery. (David S. Hilzenrath,” Cutting Cost-—Or Quality?”

Washington Post Weekly, Aug. 28, 1995)

Kaiser Permanente, California's largest HMO, has cut
back on routine Pap smears (from every year to every two
years), pelvic exams, and prenatal checkups. The Kaiser
Southern California region’s business plan and internal .
memos call for discharge of newborns and infants as early as
eight hours after birth, outpatient mastectomies/lumpec-
tomies, early discharge from intensive care units, and

outpatient appendectomies. (Sabin Russell, “Kaiser Trims
Care for Well Women,” San Francisco Chronicle, Nov. 2,
1995; Julie Appleby, “Consumer Group Claims Kaiser Cost-
Cutting Could Compromise Care,” Contra Costa Times,
Sept. 22, 1995)

“Cookbook medicine” is the new rule in authorization of
care—overriding medical providers’ best judgment with a
profit-making recipe.

Milliman & Robertson, Inc., a Seattle-based consulting
firm, has become the “Supreme Court” of medical insurance.

Its generic guidelines tell insurers covering 50 million

Americans which services to authorize and which to deny,

regardless of a doctor’s best judgment in an individual case.

Milliman & Robertson Says You Can't:

Have cataracts removed in more than one eye unless
you're young and need both eyes to work.

Stay overnight for a mastectomy.

Stay more than one day for a vaginal delivery, more than
two days for a cesaerean.

See a neurologist for new onset seizures.

Stay more than 3 days for a stroke, even if you can’t
walk,

(Allen R. Meyerson, “Helping Health Insurers Say No,” New
York Times, Mar. 20, 1995)
