TAXING TIMES

Continued from previous page

Previously, assessments had been limit-
ed to the maintenance of facilities or
improvements constructed under the
act. Second, by declaring that the gov-
ernment’s determination of benefit
would be final and conclusive in the
absence of fraud, the decision made it
almost impossible to challenge assess-
ment districts. Third, the court ruled
that parks provide a public benefit to
people, rather than to property. By
allowing parks to be a subject of
assessment financing—providing an
indirect benefit at best—the court
opened the door to an almost limitless
number of expenditures that can be
financed by assessments, such as police
and fire protection, school operations,
welfare expenditures, and more.

Even prior to Knox, governmental
agencies had been improperly disre-
garding the distinctions among special
and general taxes, assessments and fees.
A special tax is passed for a specific
purpose and requires a two-thirds vote.
General taxes require a majority vote.
Assessments must directly benefit the
properties that are being assessed and
are subject to a protest procedure. The
amount of an assessment must directly
relate to the benefit conferred upon an
individual’s property. Assessments do
not require a vote unless met by suffi-
cient protests. A fee must be directly
related to services rendered.

Last year, the state Supreme Court
began reining in local governments’
indiscriminate»use of taxes, assessments’
and fees. At issue in Santa Clara
County Local Transportation Authority
v. Guardino was an ordinance by
SCLTA authorizing a 0.5% sales tax and
issuance of bonds payable from tax rev-
enues for local transportation purposes.
‘The measure received 54.1% of the
votes in the November 1992 election.

The state. Supreme Court acknowl-
edged that lower court rulings had cast
doubt on the constitutionality of
Proposition 62’s voter requirements.
Also at issue was whether or not
SCLTA was charging a “general tax”
or a “special tax,” and whether it was a
“district” under the act. The court not
only upheld the constitutionality of
Proposition 62’s two-thirds vote provi-
sion, but ruled that it applied to
SCLTA. Of equal importance, the
court ruled that all general taxes are
subject to majority voter approval.

Justice Stanley Mosk, who wrote
the majority opinion, stated, “The
manifest purpose of Proposition 62 as
a whole was to increase the control of
the citizenry over local taxation by
requiring voter approval of all new
local taxes imposed by all local gov-
ernment entities to which it applies.”

The decision also places in ques-
tion the foundation of hundreds of
special districts created since
Proposition 13, as well as the many
general taxes imposed by local agen-
cies without voter approval. Because
Proposition 62 enacted a statutory
change rather than a constitutional
amendment, the court did not address

PAGE 7

whether its decision affects most of
the state’s larger cities, which are
ordinarily governed by charters.

Most court watchers consider the
California Supreme Court’s ruling in
the Guardino case as the most signif-
icant property tax decision since the
United States and California Supreme
Courts upheld the constitutionality of
Proposition 13. Jonathan M. Coupal,
the attorney for the Howard Jarvis
Taxpayers. Association who success-
fully argued the Guardino case
before the state Supreme court, says
the Right to Vote on Taxes Act will
go even further to solidify the founda-
tions of Proposition 13. In addition,
this prospect is sending government
agencies scrambling.

“Throughout the state, local gov-
ernments are imposing assessments at
a new frenzied rate,” says Coupal.
“Part of this is driven by the anticipa-
tion of being able to exploit a couple
of the ‘grandfather clauses’ in our ini-
tiative. Others are simply trying to
beat the deadline to impose taxes so
that they can appear on the next prop-
erty tax bill.”

According to Coupal, the intent
of the Right to Vote on Taxes Act is
to restore voters in the equation for
establishing taxes, assessments and
fees. It would allow voters to vote on
assessments proposed for them. As it
presently stands, property owners are
subject to taxes that voters have never
approved.

The act would establish uniform

for taxpayers to participate
in the approval and establishment of
assessments. An engineer’s report
would be required to insure that the
benefit to a property is proportionate
to the assessment. A mailed notice of
the proposed assessment district
would have to be sent to each affected
property owner, including the date and
time of the public hearing. A ballot
must accompany the notice, allowing
the property owner to vote on the
assessment. A majority vote against
the assessment would defeat it.

The act also would prohibit prop-
erty related fees and charges from
exceeding the costs of the service
being provided. Excluding fees for
sewer, water and refuse collection,
property related fees must be approved
by a majority of the fee payers. Lastly,
the act would make Proposition 62 a
part of the state constitution. As such,
its provisions for a simple majority.
vote for general taxes and a two-thirds
vote for special taxes would apply to
all charter cities and clarify the state
Supreme Court’s Guardino ruling
concerning that subject.

Just as they did 18 years ago,
California voters will have an oppor-
tunity this November to exert control
over revenue-raising measures that
affect them. If so, Proposition 13
may yet be rejuvenated and fulfill the
legacy that its supporters intended.

Ronald A. Zumbrun is Managing
Attorney of Zumbrun & Findley, a
Sacramento-based law firm specializ-
ing in public issues. O

This column appeared in the July 28, Los Angeles Daily News.

Cure On The Horizon For
Assessment District-Itis

By Joel Fox

I don’t have a crystal ball, I never have
picked the lottery’s winning numbers,
and I predicted the Angels would win
the pennant this year. However, a crys-
tal ball or a Nostradamus vision wasn’t
necessary to be certain of the predic-
tion for the future I made on this page
three years ago.

In an opinion piece for the Daily
News, published Jan. 13, 1993, I
reported on a month-old California
Supreme Court decision which I
described as a “Knox-out” blow to
Proposition 13. That’s because the
court case, Knox vs. Orland upheld
the validity of a benefit assessment
district, formed to pay for “mainte-
nance” of five existing parks in the
city of Orland.

Most importantly, the court
ruled that this assessment district,
and others created under assessment
district law, did not require voters’
approval. Further, the court broke
centuries of precedent establishing
how benefit assessments are calcu-
lated and applied.

The 1993 article went on to say:
“There is nothing to stop the creation
of unlimited new and overlapping
assessment districts, meaning any
present or future local agency can tag
property owners with additional
assessments. And you can bet they
will try to do just that.

“Tf the bill you pay for property
ownership can be doubled or tripled
through the guise of ‘benefit assess-
ments,’ what good is the property tax
limitation intended by Proposition 13?”

Not just scare tactics. While
most homeowners have not yet seen a
doubling of their property taxes in
the short three years since this article
was written, we are on our way.
Assessment districts have exploded
for all sorts of services, with numer-
ous assessments charged to the same
property. And, there have been
instances in which property taxes
have been doubled by assessments.

In at least one county the proper-
ty tax bill has been redesigned to
accommodate the growing list of
assessments. Look at your own prop-
erty tax bill. You’ll find a long list of
additional charges beyond your basic
property tax.

Proposition 13 declared that taxes
be voted on. Politicians created an end
run around this requirement by expand-
ing the use of non-voted assessments,
allowing assessments to be used for
services previously funded by taxes.

Benefit assessments go back cen-
turies. They were used to build
Roman roads when Rome had an
empire; and British sea walls well
before Britain had one.

Under traditional assessment
district application, property owners
finance capital improvements that

directly benefit their property. The
cost of the improvement is shared
proportionately by the property
owners-those properties which
enjoy the greater benefit pay the
higher assessment.

The Knox case set up new rules,
all to the benefit of government. The
court stated that the benefit con-
ferred by an assessment was basical-
ly whatever the governing body said
it was. In other words, the benefit
did not have to “directly” benefit
your property.

These new benefit assessments
could be used for maintenance as
well as capital improvements; and the
idea of proportionality went out the
window. Officials could charge what
they felt like charging.

The best example of the latter
was recently provided by the Los
Angeles Community College
District. Using a benefit assessment
law and the court’s ruling, the district
levied a tax of $12 for all single fami-
ly residences throughout the
immense district; more for apart-
ments and commercial properties.

How did district officials deter-
mine that each single family parcel
would receive equal benefit at the
cost of $12? A pollster concluded”
that amount is what residents in the
district would be willing to pay with-
out putting up a fuss. It had nothing
to do with benefit - it had everything
to do with arrogance!

Assessments have been created
to fund general services that are not
property-related, like libraries; to
refurbish football fields; to establish
an infamous view tax - the better
view you have, the more you pay.

Assessments are California’s No.
1 growth industry. City sponsored
assessments districts, for example,
have increased almost 1,000 percent
in 15 years.

Despite the dire predictions of
three years ago, the story for the tax-
payer doesn’t have to end on a bleak
note. We can get control of taxes
and assessments. Proposition 218 on
the November ballot is designed to
give taxpayers a right to vote on
taxes and assessments.

Under Proposition 218, assess-
ment rules are tightened so that
assessments truly will be used for
property benefits. General goyern-
mental services will be funded by
taxes, and the voters will make the
tax decisions.

If the voters pass the taxpayer
protections of Proposition 218, the
event of three years ago was not a
“Knox-out” blow, but a wake-up call
for California’s taxpayers.

Joel Fox is president of the
Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Asso-
ciation. O

Bae wK KKK KK SPECIAL ELECTION EDITION kKxk¥ kK kKkKkx*
