Now, we have tried this supply-side economics in the eighties. It gave us the biggest
increase in the deficit we’ve ever had. Even the people in the party that created it called it
*Voodoo Economics.” I said in 1992, “If we ever do this again, we’ll be in deep voodoo.”
And there we are.

I’ve got to talk to you about our public schools. It’s brain and wits time. As we approach
the 21st century, we’ve got to have the greatest schools in the world. The creative and
intellectual abilities of the American people will determine our future. In order to have a
growing, expanding job base and a growing, expanding tax base and growing, expanding
middle class, we have to have the world’s best educated workforce, period. This is the
greatest legacy we can leave our children. No question, the greatest legacy we can leave
our children.

In 1960 we had the finest schools in the world. Then the government took over, and 36
years after overspending $456 billion of federal money, our public schools rank at the
bottom of the industrialized world. What happened? The federal government, run by the
two political parties, got involved. Again, step one is to define the problem.

We have the largest number of functional illiterates in the industrialized world. At the
12th grade level, I’m sad to report 66 percent can’t meet the reading and writing
standards, 73 percent can’t meet the geography standards, 84 percent can’t meet the
mathematics standards and 89 percent can’t meet the history standards.

The major discipline problems in our schools in the 1940s were talking, chewing gum,
making noise, running in the halls, getting out of line, wearing improper clothing and not
putting paper in the waste basket. I can live with those, right? Here are our major
discipline problems today: children carrying guns to school, drug abuse, suicide,
pregnancy, rape, robbery and assault. Isn’t that sad?

Learning cannot occur in that environment. More importantly, why do parents allow their
children to act this way? In a free society, isn’t it our job as parents to teach our children
to behave and keep our children under control? When I was bad in school, what they did
to me there wasn’t nearly as significant as what they did when I got home. My parents
never read me my Miranda rights.

If we want our children to be competitive, we’ve got to have the finest schools in the
world. It’s that simple. This will have to come from us, the people. We’ve got to restore
local control over the schools. The schools must again become places of learning, not of
play. We have to create small neighborhood schools near the child’s home, especially in
the primary grades. We have to put greater emphasis on teachers. Today, we get
preoccupied with building fancy buildings. We will not have great schools without
extensive parental control and involvement. This is an overwhelming argument for
having the school near the home.
