Henry WaxMaANn
Howarp BERMAN

UCN TE: D Sit) Aarans Fy ou se OF RorepaRy By sik NT AYO VuEes

Dear Friend:

The Republican Congress has been truly devastating for the issues our community
cares about. Education, the environment, crime prevention, caring for our children and
elderly, and health care - all have sustained withering attacks during the past two years.

We can make a change this year. We can return a Democratic majority to the U.S.
House of Representatives. And you can play an important part in that effort.

Your outstanding Congressman, Tony Beilenson, is retiring after this year. The race to
succeed him will be one of the most important congressional elections in the country.

We are writing in support of an excellent Democratic candidate. The candidate who best
exemplifies the values our community cherishes. The candidate who can keep this
crucial seat Democratic in 1996 is Brad Sherman.

Brad Sherman, an honors graduate of UCLA and Harvard Law School, is a CPA who
uses his skills to work for causes he cares about. As a member of the Board of
Equalization, Brad has been a champion for middle-class taxpayers and small
businesses.

Brad Sherman is also deeply committed to our community. He is the Founding Vice-
President of Democrats for Israel, active in The Guardians of the Jewish Home for the
Aging, and a member of Valley Beth Shalom. 2

Brad Sherman will protect Medicare and Social Security from Republican attacks and
vigorously oppose Republican plans to sell-off the precious Santa Monica Mountains to
developers.

Please join us in supporting, Democrat Brad Sherman for U.S. Congress on March 26 -
a leader our community can be proud of.

Yours truly,
Howard Berman Henry Waxman
U.S. Congress U.S. Congress

P.S. Congressman Tony Beilenson, Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer and
the California Democratic Party all urge you to vote on Tuesday for Brad Sherman.

NOT Printed or Mailed at Public Expense. Paid for and authorized by Sherman for Congress. 14008 Ventura Blvd. Sherman Oaks, CA 91403 FEC# C00308742
Oe 25
