6. Patient Protection Act: Prop 216 Protects Patient Privacy

ARTICLE 10

A. Protects the confidentiality of patients’ medical records to the fullest extent of the law.

ov

A

Ensures that health care businesses cannot sell medical records without the express written authorization of the

patient. —

PATIENT RECORDS ARE NOW A J
COMMODITY FOR SALE

Hospitals, HMOs, and drug companies all maintain com-
mercial data banks which collect and store individual
medical records, containing sensitive personal information.
California’s Civil Code has extensive provisions for main-
taining medical confidentiality—but most were written
before the computer explosion. The new technology changes
everything and leaves patients extremely vulnerable.

The Information Superhighway leads straight to your

medical records.

A

> According to Dr. Beverly Woodward, an ethicist at
Brandeis University, employees at most Boston-area hospitals
enter patient information directly on-line without consent
from the patient. Any doctor at any affiliated hospital can
access these records, including psychiatric records. In
Maryland, Medicaid clerks tapped into computers and
accessed critical patient information—names, addresses,
incomes, medical records—which they sold, sometimes for
less than 50 cents, to HMO recruiters, who then visited the
patients to make sales pitches or enrolled patients in an

HMO without their knowledge or permission. (Gina Kolata,
“When Patients’ Records Are Commodities for Sale,” The
New York Times, Nov. 15, 1995; Christine Gorman, “Who’s
Looking At Your Files?’, Time, May 6, 1996)

Physicians and pharmacists get perks for patient records.

> In New Jersey, over 1,600 physicians lease personal com-
puters and software at cut rates from Physician Computer
Network (PCN); in return, the physicians let PCN scan their

A

patient records for information, which PCN then sells to phar-
maceutical companies. PCN has assured physicians that its
software has safeguards to prevent it from capturing patients’
names. However, Joseph Masso, a Pennsylvania pharmacist,
who receives discounts for letting his drug wholesaler, FoxMeyer,
scan his prescription records weekly, says he doesn't know if
FoxMeyer extracts patient names or not: “It’s more or less a
mouth-to-mouth agreement that they will not search those
files...” (Michael W. Miller, “Patients’ Records Are Treasure
Trove For Budding Industry,” Wall Street Journal, Feb. 27, 1992)

Breach of privacy can have serious consequences.

> Patients with AIDS or mental illnesses have a great deal
to lose if their condition is made public—sometimes their jobs,
even their families. When U.S. Representative Nydia Velasquez
was running for Congress in 1992, someone scanned her hospital
records and anonymously faxed the story of her 1991 suicide
attempt to the press. Although she won the election, Velasquez
is suing the hospital for $10 million for this violation of her
privacy. (Gorman, “Who’s Looking,” Time, May 6, 1996)

> “A businessman who commented to his internist that he
was feeling ‘down’ about his company’s financial future later
was denied life insurance because his electronically stored
medical records contained erroneous information about
chronic depression..:While it is difficult to sneak into a doc-
tor’s office or hospital and comb through paper records, it is
no trick if one has a password to review numerous medical
files by computer without being detected. Information thus
obtained can be sold to commercial interests, used to embar-
rass or blackmail patients.” (Editorial, “Your Medical Files,”
Washington Post National Weekly, Nov. 27, 1995)
