xwK

DOLE KEMP

AGRICULTURE

Birt Crinton Has Wacepo a WaR ON THE WEST
How CAN WE AFFORD TO TRUST HIM FOUR MORE YEARS?

Appointed a left-wing extremist as Secretary of the Interior

“To his (Secretary of the Interior Bruce Babbitt’s] critics, he comes across as a self-righteous
zealot, pushing an urban environmental agenda on traditional rural people.”
The New York Times Magazine, 8/1/93.

“In the West, people and communities. unfortunately, are not part of Babbitt’s ecosystem.”
The Rocky Mountain News, 8/29/93.

“These land use reforms look like an all-out assault on the West and how people earn a living in
the West.” Senator Ben Nighthorse Campbell (D-CO) interview, National Journal, 1 1/13/93.

Rejected California water transfer

The Clinton Administration canceled a deal begun between California and the Bush
Administration to transfer the Central Valley Project to state control, giving Californians control
over the largest single water supply in our state:

“He [Clinton] stopped California from gaining control of the largest water supply in the state,
keeping it in the hands of federal bureaucrats-- so Washington, not California, will decide when
and how much water our farmers and our growing cities will get.”

Governor Pete Wilson, Remarks to California Republican Party, 9/30/95.

‘Expanded the reach of the Endangered Species Act

After a congressionally-imposed yearlong moratorium on listing endangered species, the Clinton
Administration has started reviewing 243 species-- including 122 in California-- for listing.
These species would come on top of already-listed species, like the fairy shrimp, which can be
found in almost every mud puddle and drainage ditch in Northern California:

“California homeowners have been thwarted by the Endangered Species Act that puts the spotted
owl, kangaroo rat and the fairy shrimp ahead of Californians and property owners are
demanding change. However, Clinton's Secretary of the Interior, Bruce Babbitt, stated, ‘I do not
see any need to amend the law because I think the act is not the problem.”

Raleigh News and Observer, | 1/23/93.

Authorized and paid tor by Dole/Kemp '96, Robert E. Lighthizer, Treasurer
310 First Street, Northeast * Suite 300 * Washington, DC 20002 © (202) 414-6400

