SUMMARY

Currently, mobilehome rent control ordinances are in effect in approximately 89 jurisdictions,
which contain approximately 130,000 mobilehome spaces in mobilehome parks. These ordinances
regulate the rents for mobilehome pads which are rented by park owners to mobilehome owners.

As a practical matter, the “mobilehomes" are not mobile. The costs of moving and setting up
of “mobile"homes, which typically consist of two attached sections and are over 1,000 square
feet, are substantial. Parks commonly exclude mobilehomes that are more than a few years old,
and there is a severe shortage of vacant pads in urbanized areas. In essence, the mobilehome
owners have no bargaining power over their rents because they cannot move their mobilehomes
to other parks.

In the course of public debate over whether mobilehome rent controls should be adopted or
repealed, issues about the expense of such programs have been raised. The mobilehome park
owners’ associations, which are opposed to rent control regulations, have claimed in widely
circulated letters to editors and public officials that such programs cost the taxpayers a total of
$45 million a year. However, this claim has not been substantiated by data.

This study was conducted by contacting each of the jurisdictions that have mobilehome rent
control laws in order to obtain information on the 1993-94 fiscal year net costs of their
programs. 75 of the 89 jurisdictions contacted reported the expenses of their programs. The
survey revealed the following about the costs of mobilehome rent control programs in those 75
jurisdictions:

1. Collectively, the total of the net expenditures for the mobilehome rent control
programs was approximately $1.4 miillion. This amounts to an average of
approximately $18,500 per jurisdiction. The gross expenditures for the programs
was approximately $2.1 million, including approximately $650,000 in expenses
that were offset by fees.

2. Approximately 16 of the programs were self-financing through annual registration
fees and/or petition fees.

3. 22 jurisdictions indicated that their expenses were minimal. These jurisdictions did
not have a specific accounting of their expenses, but they indicated that their
administration activities were limited to responding to occasional information
inquiries and/or occasional meetings.

4. 58 jurisdictions, including those with no net cost or minimal costs, each had a net
cost ranging from $0 to $20,000 per year.
