Californians for Personal Responsibility
California Insurance Commissioner Chuck Quackenbush, HONORARY CHAIR

=

PROPOSITION 213

PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY ACT OF 1996
STOP REWARDING DANGEROUS FELONS

In 1985, a state law was enacted to prevent felons from recovering for injuries they sustained
while committing their crimes. This law applies to accidental injuries, but does not cover
intentional acts against felons, such as assault. Unfortunately, several dangerous crimes are
exempt from the law because they were added to the codes after 1985. Still, other crimes are not
included because they were simply not on the list of crimes in the original legislation. The

ay g pd ns 985 Ja meee E

tsonal R

¢ Carjacking ¢ ATM robbery

¢ Murder by carjacking ¢ Assault with a deadly weapon with
¢ Murder by drive-by shooting use of a firearm

e Resisting a peace officer Hate crimes

¢ Resisting a peace officer, resulting in Arson

injury or death to the peace officer
Motor vehicle theft
¢ Participation in street gang activities

Arson with great bodily injury
Arson w/ multiple injuries
Child molestation

Current law only protects property owners. All other individuals at a felony are not protected by
current law -- enabling felons to recover monetary damages from innocent by-standers.

Proposition 213 would give protection to third parties, not just property owners. Business
owners, innocent bystanders -- even local governments -- will gain protection from criminals
looking to profit from their crime. Proposition 213 protects all law-abiding citizens and stops
rewarding criminals.

Current law protects property owners from accidental injuries convicted felons sustain while
committing the crime on their property. If the felon flees the scene of a felony, current law
allows the felon to sue anyone, including the property owner, for negligence off the property

Proposition 213 expands the law to apply to accidental injuries sustained fleeing the crime.

915 L Street, Suite 1050 « Sacramento, CA 95814 © (916) 449-2957 © FAX (916) 449-2959 « FPPC ID #951982

Internet Site: http://www.responsibility.org
