HINOMS IDO AD Slay ay ecg? =
RESTORING THE AMERICAN DREAM
Bob Dole’s Plan for Economic Growth

THE PROBLEM -- CLINTON'S SLOW GROWTH AND HIGH TAXES

The Cunton economy has been marked by ovo things: the weakest recovery in the past 100 vears and the
highest tax Durcen in American history

Sincs Bill Clinton took office, the economy has grown at a nearly stagnant 2.4% — the slowest growth of
any secovery in the past 100 years. Because of the stagnant economy, Americans aren’t making any more
money than they were four years ago. Worse, thanks to the Clinton tax increase, American families are

being forced to give more of their hard-earned money to the tax man than ever before in history: 31.3% of
GDP. The typical American family now pays more in taxes than for food, clothing, and shelter combined.

Biil Clinton thinks our economy can only crawl along at 2.3% growth into the next century. He's wrong.
Bob Dole knows -- and you know - that our economy can do berter. It’s time to stop defending the slow-
growth status quo and implement a bold new agenda for change.

With the Dole pian for economic growth. our economy wiil achieve its full potential with 3.5% ~ or

higher — growth per year, putting our country back on the right track and giving every American family
the chance to achieve the American dream.

RESTORING THE AMERICAN DREAM — ELEMENTS OF THE DOLE PLAN

1) A Balanced Budger Amendment to the U.S. Constinution to force the federal goverment to do
what every family must do -- live within its means.

2) A balanced budget ov the vear 2002 because Bob Dole has built his reputation on ‘iscal
responsibility and cutting government waste.

3) Taxcelis“and Sundamenral tax reform because Bob Dole believes that people know how to spend
their money better than the government does.

+). Ending the IRS as we xnow it so that 40 million low- and middle-income taxpayers will aever
have to file another tax return.

5) sducation and job training reform that allows parents to set up tax-free savings accounts ‘or their

children’s education. é

6) Regulatory and lawsuit reform that forces the government to think about the consequences of its
regulatory actions.

TAMING THE TAXVLAN — TAX RELIEF FOR ALL AMERICANS

e ALi% individual income tax rate cut ~ the fastest, simplest, fairest way to give badly-needed tax
relief to all Americans.
S00-ner-child familv

working households with 42 million children.

Areducsion in the capital gains tax trom 28% to 14% to free trillions of dollars trapped by the system.
ror ort Gi

of Bi i *s Social S

~ easing the tax burden for 24 million

to lighten the load on our nation’s seniors.
to help ceople save for the furure.
so all Americans can move up the economic ladder.

ized and 2a:c for dy Dole for President, Inc., Rotert Lighthizer. Treasurer

$i Firs: Screer. Northeast ¢ Suite 3C0 * “Washington, D.C. 20C02 © (202) 41-4400
