UPHOLDING THE RIGHTS
OF WOMEN AND MINORITIES

THE RIGHTS of all American citizens are guar-
anteed by the U.S. Constitution, and the Natural
Law Party would support any legislation deemed
necessary to uphold these constitutional rights
for women and for all minorities. At the same
time, the Natural Law Party recognizes the dif-
ficulties in “legislating” equality: equal rights
legislation has not succeeded in eliminating dis-
crimination and has even caused further prob-
lems due to reverse discrimination.

Government cannot be present at all times and
in all places to ensure that people treat each other
fairly. Instead, the Natural Law Party intends to
reduce prejudice and bigotry in society through
more effective educational programs that de-
velop broad comprehension, increased intelli-
gence, and improved moral reasoning, and by
reducing social stress that leads to fear and divi-
siveness. These programs will help create a uni-
fying influence among our citizens and through-
out society.

Natural law is that basic element in the universe
that constantly nourishes the life of every indi-
vidual and every living species. The Natural Law
Party is the only political party that is based on
this universally nourishing quality of natural law.
Until now, democracy has been willing to com-

56

promise the interests of the minority for the sake
of the majority. This is because democracy has
so far been based on limited principles of man-
made law, which are not sufficiently compre-
hensive to be simultaneously nourishing to ev-
eryone. When such principles compromise the
interests of the minority, inevitably some seg-
ments of our population remain unfulfilled. The
result is an increase in stress and frustration,
which inevitably erupts as crime, sickness, and
other problems throughout society.

By basing its administration on the most uni-
versal principles of natural law, the Natural Law
Party offers administration through natural law,
which is capable of providing universal nour-
ishment, protection, and fulfillment to all citi-
zens of the nation, including all the diverse
groups that compose the richness and plurality
of our great society.

We believe that increased participation in gov-
ernment by women and by minorities will bring
greater strength and balance to the administra-
tion. In this context, we note that nearly one half
of the candidates running for office with the
Natural Law Party are women or minority can-
didates.

GOVERNMENT SUPPORTED BY NATURAL LAW:

A NEW APPROACH
TO NATIONAL ADMINISTRATION

THE NATURAL LAW PARTY holds that
natural law is the solution to problems. Goy-
ernment can solve problems at their basis
through scientifically proven programs to bring
every citizen, and the entire nation, into accord
with natural law. By accessing the full range of
nature’s intelligence and harnessing its power,
individuals and nations can govern themselves
with the same perfection in administration dis-
played by nature’s government.

THE PROBLEM

The federal government is besieged by prob-
lems—and legislation has inevitably proven in-
adequate to eliminate them. The American
pandemic of crime, random violence and drug
abuse, disintegrating families, poverty, and stag-
gering health care costs has not responded to
even the toughest legislation. Why?

Recent congressional initiatives to improve the
quality of life in America have*focused prima-
rily on financial approaches—for example, shift-
ing fiscal responsibility for the social “safety net”
from the Federal Government to the states. But
balancing the budget, reforming the tax struc-
ture, and addressing economic inequities will not
stop Americans from falling ill, abusing drugs,
or committing crimes (see our “Health” and
“Crime and Rehabilitation” sections).

The debates over these bills have raised ques-
tions about the underlying cause of problems.
In the search for answers, one theme increas-
ingly heard is that the problem lies within—that
all our problems are symptomatic of a deeper
crisis of moral and spiritual values [1]. Yet no
clear path to addressing this crisis has emerged.

Sf

We need to look even deeper than the family
structure to strengthen the moral and spiritual
fabric of our society. More stringent welfare and
child support rules will not by themselves instill
stronger family values, eliminate teen pregnancy,
restore a thriving work ethic, and encourage
charity and volunteerism. We need to identify
the fundamental causes of our problems. And
having done so, is there any way to create a more
efficient, more effective government that can
truly solve them?

~NATURAL LAW AND NATIONAL LAW

From the deepest perspective, our national prob-
lems have one underlying cause—violation of
natural law [2].

Natural law is the orderly principles—the laws
of nature—that govern the functioning of nature
everywhere, from atoms to ecosystems to gal-
axies. Over the past several centuries, modern
science has identified many of these laws goy-
erning physical, biological, ecological, and so-
cial systems. Natural law is inherently “life-sup-
porting”: it supports the life and evolution of
innumerable species.

Natural law is not a new idea in American gov-
ernment. Our founding fathers believed that the
rights of every American citizen to life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness are based on im-
mutable laws of nature. They felt that, through
knowledge of natural law, both science and gov-
ernment would promote the goals of freedom
and happiness of the people [3].

Human behaviors that promote life, liberty, and
happiness are in harmony with natural law. When
people live in harmony with natural law, they
