|
GORE: - ial

Creating Greater Opportunity for Women

“By improving the lives of American women, we are making a vital investment in America’s
future. By investing in women, we enable them to reach their fullest potential as individuals
and as members of our society. When women thrive, their families thrive. When families
thrive, communities flourish, and our nation reaps the benefits.”
President Bill Clinton

President Clinton has an unprecedented record of supporting women and families. He
understands that by improving the lives of American women, we make a vital investment in
America’s future. His Administration is committed to providing more economic and educational
opportunities for women, to providing quality health and child care, and to preventing violence
on the streets and at home. President Clinton is expanding opportunities for women by:

Ensuring That Women’s Voices Are Heard at Every Level of Government

¢ Appointing more women to his Administration than any other (40 percent);

e Appointing women for the first time to high-level posts: Attorney General, Chair of the
Council of Economic Advisors, Secretary of Energy, Office of Management and Budget
Director, and White House Deputy Chief of Staff;

¢ Appointing a record number of women (73) to the federal bench;

¢ Creating the White House Office for Women’s Initiatives & Outreach; the Department of
Justice’s Violence Against Women Office; and the Interagency Council on Women’s
Business Enterprise;

Helping Every American Achieve Economic Security in the New Economy

e Winning enactment of the largest deficit-cutting plan in history -- cutting the deficit by more
than half within four years;

e Fighting for and signing into law the first increase in the minimum wage in five years --
almost 60 percent of all minimum wage earners are women;

¢ Increasing funding for child care in every budget;

¢ Working to make child care programs more consistent and coordinated by streamlining
programs, linking services, reducing red tape, and giving states more flexibility;
P.O. Box 19100 « WASHINGTON, D.C. 20036-9100 ¢ VOICE: 202-331-1996 « TTY: 202-530-2170 © FAX: 202-496-4849

PAID FOR BY THE CLINTON/GorE '96 GENERAL COMMITTEE, INC.

(<3) Dun
