OTE NO ON PROP. 189

WHY SHOULD | CARE ABCUT THE PARK OWNERS'
PHONY "RENTAL ASSISTANCE" INITIATIVE?

‘m not covered by mobilehome rent control. Why should I spend my time and money to defeat this

Park owners want to dahil the Golden State Mobilhome Owners League (GSMOL) and turn the nek
back to the time when mobilehome owners had few rights. If they pass the initiative, they'll be encouraged
to try to take away other mobilehome owner rights. How would you like to go back to the days when your
park owner could: “LIBRARY (MGI)-

4 Covernment Informatio”

Maps ar

‘ / Evict you for any reason or no reason at any time! OCT 12 1998
Y Raise your rent at any time, without 90-day notice!
” Charge you for parking, keeping pets and for use of streets \and\fatilities!UF CALIFORN),
/ Deny your relatives the right to live with you! LOS ANGELES
/“ Charge your guest from the very first day!

The initiative is an attack on mobilehome owners’ rights. If it succeeds, more attacks will follow. Let's
stop them in their tracks!

You would lose your right to ever gain rent Hl

The initiative takes away your right to petition local government for protection from rent-gouging. What
would you do if your space rent doubled in the next few years? There'd be nothing you could do about it!
You would have no protection if this measure passes.

Thousands of mobilehome owners will lose their homes if the initiative passes!

Without existing rent control ordinances, thousands of your fellow mobilehome owners will be forced out
of their homes. Please don't stand by while thousands lose their life savings and become homeless!

Doris Boss is an 83-year-old Los Angeles widow who faces the loss of her home of 20 years.
Since L.A. County's rent control ordinance expired earlier this year, her rent has risen to $845
per month, while her Social Security check totals only $783. Doris faces eviction, repossession
of her home, and total disruption of her life in her final years. Thousands of other senior citizens
will face the same if the park owners get their way!

NONE OF THIS NEEDS TO HAPPEN IF YOU WILL ACT TODAY!

With your help today, GSMOL can defeat the Mobilehome Eviction Initiative. Your participation is vital.
Without adequate funds and volunteers, we won't be able to get the message out to California voters telling
the ugly truth about this phony initiative. Meanwhile, park owners will use their millions in an attempt to
spread lies and distortions to achieve victory.

Golden State Mobilhome Owners League (GSMOL)/No on Prop. 199, P.O. Box 876, Garden Grove, CA 92642

