Assemblymember Sheila Kuehl says,

Dear Friends,

Domestic violence has made front pages news more than ever over
the past year, but it certainly isn'ta new story.Violence in the
home continues to account for more than two-thirds of all the
violent crimes against women and the percentage is even higher
for children.

Throughout my first term in office as anAsemblymember, I've
puta lot of energy into further improvements in the law
concerning domestic violence in order to make the justice system
even more responsive and fair in dealing with these serious crimes.

Valerie Salkin agrees. She has committed to bring,as two of her
first bills after she is sworn into theAssembly, legislation that
would bring training on the issue of family violence into our
schools and also to allow law enforcement to confiscate weapons
from batterers placed under a restraining order by the court.

Valerie Salkin knows that domestic violence is not about
headlines. It is about safety in our homes.That’s one of the
reasons why I enthusiastically endorse heras the best candidate
for election to the 39thAssembly District.She is a proven leader
and will continue the work begun by those of us concerned about
violence in our homes, in our schools and on our streets.

Sincerely,

SANT,

Sheila James Kuehl
Member, California StateAssembly
Nationally Recognized Expert on DomesticViolence Issues

_ and community activist agree...

Barbara Perkins

National Council
of Negro Women

Cynthia Valdez

Victims of Lost Loved Ones

Sylvia Rodriguez
New Directions for Youth

“I support Valerie Salkin for the
Assembly because, as a woman,
she knows the pain that domes-
tic violence can cause. Valerie

will fight to fund our shelters
for battered women.”

“We need Valerie Salkin fighting
for us. She will make sure that
prosecutors have the tools they
need to take spousal abusers off
the streets and put them in jail
where they belong.”

“Valerie is the best candidate
for the Assembly because she
will fight to stop domestic
violence by stopping gang
violence, crime and abuse that
it perpetuates. I know that if
she’s elected, she'll fight to
change all that.”
