da

Page 2 of 3

In another action, the CMA Board of Trustees adopted neutral positions
on both propositions 214 and 216, the two competing "patient protection
initiatives” also on the November ballot.

“This was a painful decision for the CMA Board," said CMA Executive
Vice President Jack Lewin, MD. "Both initiatives contain, almost verbatim, the
best elements of patient protection that CMA has supported over the past two
and a half years with our legislative and legal actions. Unfortunately, the
measures contained other provisions that caused great concern to physicians.”

According to initiative language a new class of malpractice lawsuits
would be created, helping lawyers more than patients. The ballot initiatives
also set the stage for regulation of staffing levels for health professionals
working in hospitals and clinics.

“CMA is concerned about rules that could lock-in set numbers of health
care professionals, such as nurses, to staff hospitals and medical clinics. This
prevents the flexibility and reform required in today's health delivery system as
it shifts from hospital to outpatient, community and preventive care,” said Dr.
Lewin. 4

Prop. 214 is sponsored by the Service Employees International
Union (SEIU), and Prop. 216 is backed by the California Nurses Association
(CNA). CMA was not asked to participate in the design of either initiative.

"It's too bad that all sides could not come together, at the outset, to create
true patient protection and true health system reform,” Dr. Lewin said. "CMA
is concerned about abuses in managed care and is 100 percent committed to
protecting the quality of care for patients."

CMA led the way to enactment of laws similar to provisions contained
in the two initiatives. CMA-sponsored legislation banning health insurance
"gag clauses,” which limit a physician's ability to fully inform patients about
issues affecting their health care, is now awaiting the Governor's signature.
CMA also secured a law prohibiting health plans from retaliating against
physicians who advocate for medically appropriate health care for their
patients.

Dr. Lewin added, “Initiatives are usually not an effective way to
establish public policy. They are often sponsored by a special-interest group.
Once voted into law, they are either difficult to change or enactment is stalled
