Campaign to Defeat 209

Co-Sponsored by National & State Business, Labor and Community Organizations

THE CAMPAIGN TO DEFEAT PROPOSITION 209

PROPOSITION 209 ELIMINATES EQUAL OPPORTUNITY AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
PROGRAMS

The Campaign to defeat 209 is a broad-based coalition of state and national organizations who are
committed to defeating Proposition 209, also deceptively called the “California Civil Rights Initiative”
(CCRI). Proposition 209, which will appear on the 1996 California ballot, will ban equal opportunity
programs designed to remedy race and gender discrimination in public employment, education and
contracting. :

Proposition 209 eliminates all equal opportunity efforts such as affirmative action, outreach,
recruitment, mentoring, and tutoring programs in public employment, education and contracting.
Proposition 209 will abolish all public counseling and recruitment programs designed to help minority
youth apply for college. Public programs directed at women and girls will face elimination, this includes
programs such as the “Girls Science Network,” which is designed to encourage girls to pursue math and
science courses and careers. Other programs which Proposition 209 eliminates include women’s centers
on college campuses, outreach and mentoring programs for minority students, magnet schools designed
to desegregate school districts, and efforts to recruit women in non-traditional jobs like policing and
skilled trades.

PROPOSITION 209 PERMITS DISCRIMINATION AGAINST
’ WOMEN AND GIRLS

Clause (c) of Proposition 209 actually amends the California constitution to permit discrimination
against women and girls. Since 1971, California women have been protected from gender discrimination
by the equivalent of an Equal Rights Amendment. Making California’s protections for women among
the strongest in the nation. Asa result, gender discrimination is only allowed in very narrow
circumstances when a “compelling government interest” can be demonstrated. This standard is rarely
met.

Proposition 209 would reduce this tough standard to a much lower “reasonably necessary” standard.
Under this standard, women’s jobs and paychecks are at risk. An employer could argue that the costs
associated with pregnancy and child care could justify not hiring or promoting women. Women could
once again be excluded from non-traditional jobs like policing. The gains women have made over the
past 30 years would be reversed.

Canmaion to Defest 209
