SEE, ESE VE EE ET a
BILL CLINTON AND AL GORE ° BUILDING THE BRIDGE TO THE TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY

This election is about two different visions
about how we should go into the 21st
century. Would we be better off, as | believe,
working together to give each other the tools
we need to make the most of our God-given
potential, or are we better off saying, you’re
on your own?

Would we be better off building that
bridge to the future together so that we can
all walk across it, or saying, you can get
across it yourself?

This is a real important election. The world
is changing dramatically in how we work
and how we live, how we relate to each
other. Huge changes. And the decisions we
make will have enormous practical
consequences.

So we’ve talked about our responsibilities.
Your responsibility is to show up on
November the 5th, because you are going to
decide whether we’re going fo balance the
budget now, but protect Medicare, Medicaid,
education and the environment.

You will decide whether we’re going to
keep fighting crime with the Brady Bill, the
assault weapons and finish putting those
100,000 police to work. Whether we are
going to move a million people from welfare
to work.

Whether we're going to give our families
more protection for their kids against drugs
and tobacco and gangs and guns. Whether
we’re going to give our children a world-
class education where every eight-year-old
can read, every twelve-year-old can log in
on the Internet, every 18-year-old can go to
college.

If we do those things, we'll build that
bridge to the 21st century. And the greatest
country in history will be even greater.

Bill Clinton, Closing Statement, San Diego
Debate, Oct: 17, 1996.

Building a better future for America’s
families.

* Getting the job done: In the first two
years passed 86% of legislation agenda -
highest since Johnson was President.

* Deficit: Coming down for 3 years in
a row - first time since Truman was President.

* Job Growth: 7.3 million in just 31
months — better than any Republican
administration since the 1920's.

* Private Sector Jobs: 92% of all new
jobs — highest since Truman was President.

* Federal Employment: On course to
reduce federal workforce by 272,800 —
smallest since Kennedy was President.

* Inflation rate: 2.7% average annual
rate — lowest since Kennedy was President.

* Business Investment. 18.3% at an
average annual rate — highest relative to
GDP since World War Il.

* Head Start: 50,000 more kids ready
to learn.

¢ Direct Lending: Saved taxpayers
$6.8 billion, while lowering interest rates for
students and allowing for flexible repayment
loans.

* Pell Grants: 800,000 more for
eligible students.

* National Service: Nearly 50,000
community service and college-aid
opportunities.

¢ Misery Index In 1994, the
combined measure of unemployment and
inflation — lowest since 1968.

* Fighting Crime: Signed the $30
billion Crime Bill which includes the Assault
Weapons ban.

The Facts About some of the Ballot
Propositions
Vote No on Prop. 209

Called the California Civil Rights Initiative,
Prop 209 was put on the ballot to pose as
an equal opportunities measure but in
essence it is the reverse; it sets back the
gains made by women and minorities since
FDR issued an executive order in 1941
prohibiting racial discrimination by
government and defense contractors.

Suppose you were a woman, or d member
of a minority, or if you applied for a job or
entrance to a school and were denied,
based on your race or religion. Nearly every
one fits into one of those categories, as
California today has the most diverse
population of any state in the Union. Prop
209 ’s clause C creates a constitutional right
to discriminate against women and girls.
Clauses A and G conveniently leave out
religion (although they do not leave out
“race”) from the list of prohibitions of
discrimination OR granting preferential
treatment.

Ws time to vote NO on any initiative that is a
deception to the voting public.

Vote NO on Prop. 208 & 212 Campaign
Finance Reform

Neither one of the above Campaign Finance
Reform Initiatives are true reforms of the
election process. There must be a level
playing field for candidates and supporters
for true campaign finance reform.
