BOB HERTZBERG
SMART PLAN FOR

A lot of politicians talk tough about fighting crime. But
Bob Hertzberg knows that we need more than rhetoric
to fight crime. Bob Hertzberg has a proven record of
fighting crime.

As a board member of the Los Angeles Alliance for a
Drug-Free Community, Bob brought law enforcement
together with neighborhoods to crack down on drug

LA. Keep violent criminals behind bars.
Toughen sentences of violent offenders and make them serve

their full terms. Violent offenders should not be granted early
release because of prison overcrowding. Instead, use alternative
sentencing for some non-violent offenders — like electronic house
arrest — to unburden our prison system. Create special “drug
courts” in California that have proven successful in other states.
Force the criminal justice system to treat domestic violence with

the seriousness it deserves.

2 Prevent kids from becoming criminals.
Expand gang and drug prevention programs — like DARE — as well
as anti-violence and drug rehabilitation programs. Schools
should actively work to reduce hate crimes in the Valley. Increase
after school day care and recreational activities so that kids have

alternatives to hanging out on the street.

BOB HERTZBERG.

The Choice of Law Enforcement.

© Southern California Alliance of Law Enforcement

© Police Officers Research Association of California

* Association for Los Angeles Deputy Sheriffs

* Los Angeles Peace Officers Professional Association
* California Coalition of Law Enforcement Associations

HAS A TOUGH AND
FIGHTING CRIME.

dealing. Bob Hertzberg fought to add 1,000 more
police to our streets and to improve our 9-1-1 system.

As an Assembly member, Bob will take a
comprehensive approach to ridding our streets of
crime and violence — one that is tough on criminals,
but also works to prevent crime from happening in the
first place.

Re Pass tougher gun controls.

Ban cheap hand guns, like Saturday Night Specials, and fight to
keep the ban on military-style assault weapons. Require licensing
regulations and safety courses for owners and gun dealers. Limit

the sale of ammunition.

4. Increase police visibility.

Hire more police and use them more effectively. Expand
community-based policing and put police on regular street patrols
and increase bike and foot patrols. Bob thinks we should offer
incentives to encourage police to live in the neighborhoods where

they serve.

5. Expand Neighborhood Watch Programs.
Increase safety in residential and commercial areas by mobilizing

neighbors and business people to resist crime. Bob Hertzberg will
assign a staff person to coordinate and help expand

Neighborhood Watch programs.

For common sense solutions to
neighborhood problems.
Ces

