near zero in many California communities.* In addition, the cost of moving most mobilehomes
ranges from $10,000 to $12,000, even where an available space can be found.‘ In practical and
economic terms, the issue becomes one of "scarcity" that a well known commentator described
this way:

Scarcity increases the mobilehome owner’s vulnerability. The
virtual absence of vacant pads means the homeowner has nowhere
to move. He is thus vulnerable not only to loss of moving costs,
but to the entire equity in his home if he has no entitlement to
security of tenure for himself or for a successor in his location.
If there were no scarcity, the mobilehome owner could move and
at least protect his investment, minus the cost of moving. But
where there are no vacant sites available, scarcity permits a park
owner to drive the home’s price down to salvage, ordinarily only
a few thousand dollars. What usually is a source of appreciation
becomes, for the mobilehome dweller, a trap.’

Mobilehome owners who cannot afford the rent demanded by a park owner are
often left with no choice but to abandon their homes.

Although California law provides some protection to mobilehome residents from
unlawful eviction, unfair leases or other unfair business practices by park owners, state law
is completely silent on the issue of how much rent a park owner may charge. It is left to local
jurisdictions, such.as counties, cities and towns, to fill this gap.

As a direct consequence of shortages of mobilehome spaces, low vacancy rates,
and rapidly rising rents, nearly 100 California cities and counties have now enacted some form
of mobilehome rent control. Many that have done so have not enacted other forms of
residential rent control, such as for apartment rents. This is further evidence of the
mobilehome owner’s unique need for protection, which many local governments now recognize
and require.

The so-called "Mobilehome Fairness Initiative" has one purpose: the pre-emption
and elimination of all current and future local mobilehome:rent ordinances. The hundreds of
thousands of homeowners living in these 100 jurisdictions shall immediately begin suffering
the consequences of increased rents should the Initiative pass. In addition, those jurisdictions
which do not yet have an ordinance shall be stripped of the power to ever enact one in the
future. The carefully deliberated, and well-drafted enactments of City Councils and County
Boards throughout California which have been designed to protect their local citizens shall be
wiped out in one swift stroke.

In order to camouflage its true purpose, the park owners who drafted this
measure have added language which offers rental assistance in the form of subsidies. But this
"rental assistance" program is simply a fraud which is designed to fool the electorate and make

‘> HCD, Mobilehome Parks in California (1986), p. 17, note 18.
6 Wallis, Wheel Estate (1991), p. 20.

7 Sax, et al., "John K. Yee and Irene Yee, et al. v. The City of Escondido: Brief of
Golden State Mobilehome Owners League, Inc., et al. as Amici Curiae in Support
of Respondent", 25 Lovola of Los Angeles Law Review Number 4, p. 1272
(June, 1992)

—————————————————————— wT
