ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT PLATFORM

Storm and similar defense activities that protect
oil in the Middle East are in fact a form of cor-
porate welfare. U.S. dependence on foreign oil
is also responsible for almost 50% of our trade
deficit.

Despite its vital importance to our economy,
America’s energy utilization is inefficient and
often haphazard. Renewable sources, such as
hydroelectric, wind, and solar power, account
for only a small percentage of all power gener-
ated in the United States. America lacks a long-
term plan for conservation, increasing efficiency,
and conversion to sustainable sources.

THE SOLUTION

The Natural Law Party is committed to increas-
ing both energy efficiency and the use of renew-
able, safe, and nonpolluting energy sources. This
approach will protect our environment, create
energy self-sufficiency, and add to the economic
prosperity of the nation. Through programs that
will create new jobs and new industries in en-
ergy conservation and renewable energy sources,
the Natural Law Party will move away from the
hazardous and wasteful use of fossil fuels in
ways that will simultaneously benefit the envi-
ronment and save the nation hundreds of billions
of dollars [4].

To improve energy efficiency and self-suffi-
ciency, the Natural Law Party will:

¢ Support basic research on energy efficiency,
energy storage (both for large and small-
scale applications), and fuel cells, in addi-
tion to electric, hydrogen, and highly energy-
efficient vehicles. The newly developed zinc
air battery, for example, has four times the
storage density of the nickel cadmium bat-
tery and could lead to energy-efficient auto-
mobiles.

¢ Provide financial incentives for home-own-
ers and industry to use available energy-ef-

36

ficiency measures, such as insulation and
compact fluorescent lighting.

¢ Set performance standards for energy-con-
suming and pollutant-emitting products in
order to encourage adoption of state-of-the-
art technologies and to protect responsible
and innovative manufacturers from being
undercut by those who produce cheaper but
dirtier products.

By increasing efficiency, the U.S. can reduce
energy use by approximately 2% a year, from
84.4 quadrillion BTUs in 1990 to 69.2 quads in
the year 2000. For example, conservation mea-
sures such as compact fluorescent lighting can
save up to $25 billion in annual fuel costs [5].

The Natural Law Party also supports the devel-
opment of new energy sources, such as solar,
wind, and biomass—which could be cost-com-
petitive now if government stopped subsidizing
fossil fuels. The Natural Law Party is commit-
ted to increasing the proportion of renewable,
environmentally clean energy sources by the year
2000. To achieve these goals, the Natural Law
Party will:

¢ Tax fossil fuels to reflect their real cost to
the nation, including environmental clean-
up, medical costs, and security costs in the
Persian Gulf.

¢ Remove federal subsidies for fossil fuels and
nuclear energy. Require that construction of
new electrical power plants take into account
all long-term costs to the nation, such as en-
vironmental protection and health costs.

¢ Minimize the Federal Government’s role as
a micromanager in the energy marketplace,
and ensure that the construction of major
capital assets (including buildings and elec-
tric power plants) reflect the national energy
policy goals over the lifetime of the assets

[6].

ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT PLATFORM

The Natural Law Party does not support the de-
velopment of nuclear energy. At present, mu-
nicipalities subsidize nuclear plants and the Fed-
eral Government funds nuclear reactor construc-
tion with tax-deductible bonds. But no one can
safeguard for 10,000 years the highly toxic
wastes generated by these reactors—which is
what the Federal Government has agreed to do.
By trying to get rid of these wastes, the govern-
ment has essentially agreed to yet another sub-
sidy for pollution-generating energy sources. In
addition, the known worldwide reserves of low-
cost, high-grade nuclear fuel are running out,
which will mandate a transition in the near fu-
ture to the next generation of nuclear power
plants: advanced converters and breeder reac-
tors. These reactors have the technological ad-
vantage that they do not consume fuel—they
make their own—but they produce bomb-grade
fissionable materials as unavoidable by-prod-
ucts. In a world based on such a technology, no
government could ensure nuclear containment
and nonproliferation. Therefore, for both eco-
nomic and security reasons, the Natural Law
Party will not support further development and
construction of nuclear energy plants.

It is vitally important for America to clean up its
polluted air, rivers, lakes, beaches, wetlands, and
oceans. Research has consistently shown that

' when industrial sources of pollution are elimi-

nated at their source, the profitability of the in-
dustry increases. Moreover, when businesses are
forced to stop polluting, they frequently come
up with innovative ways to make use of their
polluting by-products. In Scandinavia, for ex-
ample, businesses in any given region collec-
tively decide how to use polluting wastes from
one business as part of the manufacturing pro-
cess of another, with the goal of zero pollution.

To eliminate toxic waste, the Natural Law Party
supports research into innovative technologies
such as the plasma torch, a cost-effective pro-
cess that cooks contaminated soil into inert,
harmless glassy rocks suitable for road gravel.

3

A similar technology, devised for liquid nuclear
waste, drains out water and salts and turns the
remainder into glass logs that are safer for long-
term storage.

America should lead the global effort to prevent
the destruction of the earth’s forests, the deci-
mation of the diversity of species, and the po-
tential damage from ozone depletion and the
greenhouse effect. A moratorium should be de-
clared on cutting timber in national parks, na-
tional forests, and national monuments until a
sustainable management plan for cutting is in-
stituted.

To make these changes requires flexibility and
ingenuity in the development of new environ-
mentally sound technologies—not giving up the
present standard of living, but raising it through
developing energy sources, industries, and
modes of transportation that are in harmony with
nature.

Since pollution is primarily caused by human
behavior, bringing the individual and the nation
into harmony with natural law provides the ba-
sis for all the above programs proposed by the
Natural Law Party. The Natural Law Party there-
fore supports educational programs that promote
broad comprehension and “pollution-free behav-
ior”—behavior that is in accord with natural law,
and does not create problems for society or the
environment.

NOTES

1. Engine exhaust from burning hydrocarbons
in vehicles and from power generation and in-
dustrial use is a major source of air pollution.
High levels of greenhouse gases may contribute
to potentially hazardous global warming. Strip-
mining of coal is highly disruptive to the envi-
ronment, and the burning of coal discharges
millions of tons of particulate ash into the atmo-
sphere each year, thus threatening health and
increasing air pollution. Air pollution in most
