You've Seen the
Smoke and Mirrors

Taxes

John Geranios is a tax fighter endorsed by
the National Tax Limitation Committee and the
Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association.

He supports a 15% tax cut for California’s
working families. He’s signed a pledge to
oppose all new and higher taxes—and he'll
defend Proposition 13 against liberal politicians.

Scott Wildman says he’ll be an advocate for
taxpayers—but public records show he failed to
pay his fair share of property taxes. In fact, the
government had to place a lien against his home
to collect the taxes he owed.

Now here are the facts...
Experience

John Geranios is an award-winning professor
and chair of the Business Department at Mount
St. Mary’s College. He earned his Ph.D from USC
and owns a successful business in Burbank.

His opponent, Scott Wildman lists himself as
a teacher on the ballot. But he’s actually a liberal
union representative.

Scott Wildman also claims to be a business-
man—but there’s no record of his owning a
business in Los Angeles County or anywhere
else in California. And Wildman still claims a tax
exemption on his real home in the San Francisco
Bay Area.

Illegal Immigration

John Geranios has a real plan to help stop illegal immigration—
and he strongly supports Proposition 187, the “Save Our State”
initiative which would save California taxpayers billions of dollars
by ending benefits to illegal aliens.

Scott Wildman said he supported the “spirit” of Proposition 187—
but a month later, he admitted he actually opposed it.

Fighting Crime

John Geranios is endorsed by Attorney General Dan Lungren,
Los Angeles County Sheriff Sherman Block, Crime Victims United
and every law enforcement organization in Burbank, Glendale and
Los Angeles because of his tough stand on crime.

He supports the death penalty and will
defend California’s new “3 Strikes” law
against liberal politicians and judges who
are trying to weaken it.

Scott Wildman says he supports the
“spirit” of “3 Strikes”—but he then said
“enforcement of our laws will not solve our
basic problems.”

And he’s backed by powerful San
Francisco liberals who strongly oppose the
death penalty and tougher anti-crime laws.

The choice is clear.

Scott Wildman has repeatedly attempted to mislead voters about his experience
and where he stands on the issues.

John Geranios is a proven leader we can trust to cut government spending and
taxes, restore excellence to our schools, make our neighborhoods safer and stop
illegal immigration.

According to the Los Angeles Times “John Geranios is a near perfect fit”—
and the clear choice for State Assembly.

STATE ASSEMBLY

