This discussion examines the text of the CCRI. Our goal is not to engage in a discussion of the
CCRI on its merits per se. However, we believe that a close examination of the text and some of the
background of the initiative will ultimately provide you more information on which to base your
decision on how to vote for the CCRI.

The authors of the CCRI try to mirror the language of Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act.
Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act is a federal statute that outlawed discrimination in employment.
However, the CCRI does not copy the language of Title VII exactly and thus is not limited in its effect
to the anti-discriminatory intent of Title VII.

The authors of the CCRI position is that equal treatment is, and should be, the goal of our
society and that affirmative action is antithetical to this goal.

Let's go through the text:

EXPOSITION |

(a) The state shall not discriminate This is the meat of the initiative. This section will eliminate ALL
} against, or grant preferential affirmative action programs operated by the state (See section (f) below
treatment to, any individual or group | for a discussion of what is covered by the term state.) The language in
on the basis of race, sex, color, section (a) has three relevant phrases:
ethnicity, or national origin in the (1) . .. GRANT PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT TO... Any program
operation of public employment, that someone can argue gives a preference would be eliminated
public education, or public under this initiative. This means that not only admissions and
contracting. hiring affirmative action programs will be eliminated, but also
outreach and recruitment programs will also be eliminated.
«+. ON THE BASIS OF RACE, SEX, COLOR, ETHNICITY, OR
NATIONAL ORIGIN... This language categories the
characteristics which affirmative action programs cannot focus
on. For example, if an affirmative action program gives
preferential treatment to veteran status, that would be allowable
under this clause.
+  - IN THE OPERATION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT, PUBLIC
EDUCATION, OR PUBLIC CONTRACTING... This language
describes who the CCRI affects. Any public agency, state or
local will not longer be able to maintain their affirmative action

| (6) This section shall apply only to This section says that the CCRI is not a retroactive amendment.
} action taken after the section’s Basically, this means that if a person was admitted to school, granted a
effective date. government contract or received a promotion before the passage of the
CCRI, those opportunities cannot be taken away from those people. But
the CCRI will eliminate affirmative action programs that are in existence
when the CCRI passes and will prohibit the creation of affirmative action
programs in the future.

Presented by the
UCLA School of Law Affirmative Action
Outreach, Education & Organizing Project
For More Information, Please E-Mail Us at “Mattson@Law3.Law.UCLA.Edu"
& Visit Our Affirmative Action Homepage at “http://www.law.ucla.edu/Class/Archive/CivAA/" 12
