Right to Vote on Taxes Act
Page 9

(f) In any legal action contesting the validity of any assessment, the
burden shall be on the agency to demonstrate that the property
or properties in question receive a special benefit over and above
the benefits conferred on the public at large and that the amount
of any contested assessment is proportional to, and no greater
than, the benefits conferred on the property or properties in
question.

[Annotation: Although this provision shifts burden of proof in taxpayers’ favor on
issue of benefits to property, it is consistent with some current case law. See, ¢.g.,
- ist. (1985) 165 Cal.App.3d 567./

(g) Because only special benefits are assessable, electors residing
within the district who do not own property within the district
shall not be deemed under this Constitution to have been deprived
of the right to vote for any assessment. If a court determines
that the Constitution of the United States or other federal law
requires otherwise, the assessment shall not be imposed unless
approved by a two-thirds vote of the electorate in the district in
addition to being approved by the property owners as required by

‘Section 4(e).

[Annotation: Under existing law, it is not a violation of the right to vote to limit
elections to property owners if the district provides only a narrow, property related
service. So. Cal. Rapid Transit District v. Bolen (1992) 1 Cal.4th 654. However, in
the unlikely event this becomes an issue, this provision would simply require an
additional vote of the registered voters to impose the assessment.]

SEC. 5. Effective Date

[Annotation: Although titled ‘effective date,” this section has some important
exceptions regarding the requirements for assessments. /f one of the following
exceptions does not apply, then an existing assessments must cease by July 1, 1997
unless ratified by the property owners]

Pursuant to Article II, Section 10(a), the provisions of this Article shall become
effective the day after the election unless otherwise provided. Beginning July
1, 1997, all existing, new or increased assessments shall comply with this
Article. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the following assessments existing on
the effective date of this Article shall be exempt from the procedures and
