Then, when we passed the income tax amendment in 1913 and 16 years later it had gone
from $6.65 to $29 a person a year. Now, strap on your seat belt and don’t eject. Today,
it’s $5,700 per year per person.

I hope I’ve made the point. When you’ve got a tax law that Congress can raise at will,
see, it’s the percent that’s killing you, right? Forty percent of your paycheck now goes to
taxes. Back in 1910, it was ten percent. Now — we know we’re not getting our money’s
worth. Today, we pay more in taxes to our nation than we pay for food, clothing and
shelter combined.

The new tax system has got to be fair, paperless and raise the necessary revenue. I will
not run up and down the streets of America promising you hope, opportunity and growth,
flat tax, flat tax, flat tax. If that is the best tax, that’s the one we’ll do. We’re going to
look at all of them carefully, thoughtfully, and rationally. We’re going to use the
computer as our wind tunnel. We’ll mail it, give it to you and move on to the next
problem.

I am sick and tired of having a government where the benefits of our congressmen and
the retirement plans of our congressmen and the people in the White House are better

than those of the ordinary American citizen. They are your servants. Now, if you want
them to feel your pain, let them have retirement and health insurance like yours, right?

Now, here on taxes, and this is my favorite. Any new tax program, whatever it is, must
have a provision that Congress cannot raise taxes without putting it on the ballot in the
next federal election and having the voters approve it. Now, imagine asking the voters to
approve a tax increase. A third of the Senate is running , the entire house is running, the
President is running. They won’t bring it up unless they need it and if they really need it,
they will make the sacrifice. Now we have disciplined spending. Now, we put the cork
in the bottle, right? Z

Everybody gets upset in Washington about that. If I’m going broke in business, I can’t
force my stockholders to give me more money. Just because you mismanage our
economy, why should you be able to force us to pay you more money? Why in a free
society that has a government with an unbroken record of undisciplined spending, should
the owners of the country — the people — not make the final decision to pay more taxes?
They should.

As we approach the 1996 election, they’ ve proposed solving these financial problems
with a big tax cut. Since we cannot pay our bills, wouldn’t it make a lot more sense to
have a big spending cut first? You come to me and say, “Ross, I’m hopelessly in debt. I
can’t pay my bills. Can you give me some good advice?” If I were the guys who proposed
the tax cut idea, I’d look at you and smile and say, “God bless you, have them but your
salary.” You would say, “Ross, I can’t pay my bills with my current salary. If 1 cut my
salary, how can I pay my bills?” I’d say, “Let’s change the subject,” right?
