Consider these four propositions
for working Californians

Proposition 210 raises California’s minimum wage’
in two steps to $5.75 by March 1998. It rewards
hard work with a decent wage for California’s two
million low wage workers.

f you're like most people who work for a
living, I’m sure there are times when it’s a

Proposition 212 places mandatory limits on struggle to make ends meet. The last thing you

campaign contributions and spending. It forces need is someone who’s out to make it even

candidates to raise most of their money from inside harder for you. IMPORTANT ELECTION
the districts they represent and bans corporate :

contributions. It repeals the tax break for lobbyists That’s what makes me angry. Right now there are

and uses the money that is saved to pay for a group of politicians — both in Washington and INFORMATION

enforcement of Proposition’s 212s reforms. Sacramento — who ought to be looking for ways to

help working men and women, and they’re not
doing it. In fact, they are working overtime to pass
Decisions about your health care should be made legislation that will make it more difficult than it

by a qualified doctor, sel by paler : has ever been to bring home a decent paycheck and FROM THE
company more interested in making a profit for its ch s
shareholders than healing patients. Proposition 214 to protect your rights on the job.

prohibits HMOs and insurance companies from It’s very important that you have the opportunity CALIFORNIA LABOR

ee roe ame eres to hold these elected officials accountable for the
encourage doctors to delay or deny health care.

It prohibits gag rules on doctors and prevents job they are doing. But how can you do that when FEDE RATION, AFL-CIO.
HMOs from denying care recommended by a you don’t know where they stand on the issues that
patient’s doctor without a second opinion. affect you as a working person?

FOR UNION MEMBERS

That’s why we've prepared this Voter Guide.
You won't find this information on TV or in the

Special interest lobbyists are helping their friends newspapers. The following pages get right to the

in Sacramento draft bills that would create huge

tax breaks for the wealthy. For example, this year, point on the ballot measures and legislation that
the richest 1 percent of taxpayers are getting a $700 will have the most impact on your work. On the
million tax break, because the top two tax brackets back is a point-by-point comparison of where your
have been eliminated. Proposition 217 would mandidatecistandionitheseissues:
restore those tax brackets for the wealthy and
generate nearly $700 million annually for schools, Take a few moments now to review this booklet,
libraries, police and fire protection. mark your choices on the the tear-off card and take a ois:
Distributed to the members of affiliated unions by
it with you to the polls. The choices you make on * the California Labor Federation, AFL-CIO, 417
November 5 will determine the future for Montgomery St., Suite 300, San Francisco, CA; Art
This is not an official ballot or an official sample ballot Chileans working mien worennE lenceria LOE Executive ROM Ale: ST WER
prepared by the county elections official or the Secretary Engineers Local Union No. 3 provided design,
of State. This is an unofficial ballot summary prepared by them carefully. production and printing of this Voter Guide as a
the California Labor Federation for our members, for use donation to the Federation.

in identifying issues of importance to working people and Art Pulaski, Executive Secretary-Treasurer

candidate positions on these issues. California Labor Federation, AFL-CIO

