Background

In 1990, the California voters approved Proposition
117, the California Wildlife Protection Act of 1990. The
act designated mountain lions as a specially protected
“mammal, and generally prohibited their taking (that is,

hunting or killing), injury, possession, or sale. However,
Proposition 117 allows the killing of a mountain lion if it
(1) is perceived to be an imminent threat to public health
or safety, (2) damages livestock or other property, or (3) is
attacking people. In 1994, for example, 131 mountain
lions were killed because they threatened public safety or
damaged property or livestock.

Proposition 117 generally permits the Legislature to
amend its provisions relating to mountain lions with a
four-fifths vote of the members of both houses, but only if
the amendments are consistent with the purposes of the

- act.

Proposition 117 also created the Habitat Conservation
Fund (HCF). This fund is generally used to support the
acquisition of lands for the protection of mountain lions,
deer, rare, endangered, and threatened animals and
plant life, wetlands, and park purposes. Proposition 117
required that the HCF receive $30 million a year. This
funding comes from the state’s General Fund and various
environmental funds.

The state Fish and Game Commission is generally
responsible for regulating the protection and use of
wildlife species which are not rare, threatened, or
endangered, in order to achieve a variety of goals. The
commission does this by regulating the hunting,
capturing, and killing of wildlife, including establishing
hunting seasons; promoting public education; and
protecting and enhancing habitat. The commission’s
policies are implemented by the Department of Fish and
Game.

Proposition 117 prohibits the commission or the.
Department of Fish and Game from adopting regulations”

that conflict with its provisions.

Proposal

This measure amends Proposition 117’s provisions
related to mountain lions. Specifically, the measure does
the following:

Analysis by the Legislative Analyst

¢ Changes the vote requirement—from four-fifths to
majority vote—for the Legislature to amend or
repeal provisions of law concerning mountain lions,
and eliminates the requirement that such changes
be consistent with the purposes of Proposition 117.
¢ Eliminates the designation of the mountain lion as a
specially protected mammal in California, and
requires the Fish and Game Commission to regulate
mountain lions in the same manner as it regulates
other mammals which are not rare, endangered, or
threatened.
Requires the Department of Fish and Game to
prepare a mountain lion management plan for the
commission’s approval and to implement the
adopted plan. As part of the plan, the department
must identify priority zones where the removal of
individual mountain lions has not alleviated threats
to public safety, livestock, domestic animals, other
property, and other wildlife species. The measure
authorizes the department to regulate, hunt, or kill
mountain lions in priority zones if it has a plan for
that zone. In addition, such actions must be
consistent with the plan and maintain a viable
mountain lion population in the zone.
Authorizes the Department of Fish and Game to
designate persons and government entities to
remove or kill mountain lions that are perceived to
be an imminent threat to public health or safety or
livestock. :

Fiscal Effect

The measure reallocates existing funds in the HCF
from land acquisition to the Department of Fish and
Game to prepare and implement the mountain lion
management plan. The reallocation would be up to
$250,000 annually for 1996-97, 1997-98, and 1998-99,
and up to $100,000 annually thereafter until July 1,
2020. The exact amount would depend on legislative
action.

‘In addition, the measure declares the Legislature’s
intent that up to $250,000 be appropriated annually from

‘sources other than the HCF for public safety and public
‘infprmation programs related to mountain lions.

TT SSS

For the text of Proposition 197 see page 59

P96

29
