Fighting for Quality Health Care

Sapeambar 23, 1996

“For working famitics te succeed in the new econcary, they must be able to buy health insurance
that they de aus tose when they change jobs or when someone in thelr family gcts sick. We mast
do mere te make quality health care available to every American.”

Presidens Bill Clinton

President Clinton is fighting hard to make health care availeble to all Americans, improve the quality
of health care, sirengtheo Modicarc, and expand coveragc. The President is fighting for healthy
families by:

Signing the Featth Insurance Reform Act (Kassebaum-Kennedy Bill) which expands and
protects access to health msurance by fimmtmg exclusions for pre-existing conditions and
allowing individuals to take their besith insurance with them when they change or lose their

jobs;

Enacting the Family and Medical Leave Act, eaabling workers to takc up to 12 weeks of
unpaid leave to care for a sick famity member without fear of losing their jobs:

Fightiog for legisiation to require insurers to pay for eew mothers ead their bebies to stay
in the hospital for 48 hoars, and 96 hours if the mother has delivered by Cesarcan;

Fighting fer tegisiation én ensure that people who need treatment for ments) Disess get the
treatrpeat they need without discrimination,

Estahtishing 3 comprehensive Childhood Immsaizstiea Initiative to increase vaccinations
and help ensure healthier futures for ai) children. In 1995, 75 percent of 2-yea-old children
were fully immunized, s record bigh;

Fighting to reduce rising health care costs. Last year. medica! care inflation had the smallest
increase in nearly two decades;

Proposing a bold initiative to cut off children's accans to tobacco prodnets and 16 reduce
their appea) to children,

Fighting for tat funding of tee Women, Iafants and Children Program (WIC) to expand
natrition services for mothers and their children, and

lacreasieg funding for breast cancer research by 65 perceat.

PO. Box 17100 « Wasenetom. D.C. 20036-9200 © vouce: 22-331 1996 © v3v: 202-530 2170 « Pax: 22-406 - 0880

Pang Om av te CUston / GORE 96 GENERAL COMMITTEE, dh.

@ =,
