4

ATTORNEYS. FEES. RIGHT TO NEGOTIATE. Limits. RESTRICTS LOBBYISTS.
FRIVOLOUS LAWSUITS. INITIATIVE STATUTE. INITIATIVE STATUTE.

5]

CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS AND SPENDING

SUMMARY OF KEY PROVISIONS

¢ Prohibits Legislature from requiring that attorney fees be reasonable or that contracts
with clients be fair.

SUMMARY OF KEY PROVISIONS

e Limits a contributor’s campaign contributions per candidate to $100 for districts of
less than 100,000, $250 for larger districts, and $500 for statewide elections.
Committees of small contributors can contribute twice the limit. Contribution limits.
approximately double for candidates who agree to limit spending. Limits total
contributions from political parties, businesses, unions and others. Prohibits transfers
between candidates.

e Limits fundraising to specified time before election.

e Prohibits lobbyists from making and arranging contributions to those they influence.

¢ Requires disclosure of top contributors on ballot measure advertising.

¢ Essentially maintains existing rules on frivolous lawsuits and excessive attorneys fees.
¢ Requires a two-thirds legislative vote to pass laws against frivolous lawsuits and
unconscionable fees.
Background
This proposition was put on the ballot by trial lawyers who specialize in personal injury,

contingency fee lawsuits. These lawyers last year changed their name from the California
Trial Lawyers Association to "Consumer Attorneys."

Fiscal Impact on Government Agencies, Jobs and the Economy ° Increases penalties under Political Reform Act

Individuals, businesses, and local governments in California pay millions of dollars every
year to defend themselves from frivolous lawsuits. These costs show up in higher taxes,
insurance premiums, and goods and services. Many of these lawsuits are motivated by a
lawyer's ability to lock clients into contracts where the lawyer receives fees equalling
$10,000 per hour or more. Frivolous lawsuits let lawyers abuse the legal system by
forcing huge settlements without any real proof of wrongdoing.

THE EFFECT OF YOUR VOTE

() YES. A YES VOTE WOULD:

e Prevent the legislature from placing even reasonable limits on the amount of money
lawyers can charge consumers, even when the lawyer performs little actual work
on a case.

¢ Prevent the Legislature from passing reasonable rules to make sure attorneys write
fair contracts with their clients.

() NO. A NO VOTE WOULD:
e Allow Legislature to continue to exercise oversight over attorney-client contracts
and fees.
¢ Preserve the ability to pass new laws to crack down on frivolous lawsuits.

WuHo SUPPORTS AND Opposes THIS MEASURE

Supporters Opponents
¢ Trial Lawyers ¢ National Federation of Independent
Business - California
e Association for California Tort Reform
¢ California Chamber of Commerce

RECOMMENDED VOTE —————————> B®)

Fiscal Impact on Government Agencies, Jobs and the Economy
¢ Adoption of this measure would result in costs to state and local governments for
implementation and enforcement of new campaign finance limitations in the range of
up to $4 million annually.
e The measure would result in unknown, but probably not significant, additional state
and local election costs. :

RECOMMENDED VOTE —————————> fg

, marked ballot prepared by California Ballot Pamphlet, a project

NOTICE TO VOTERS — (Required by Law) This is not an official ballot or an official sample ballot prepared by the county
of Citizens for Economic Progress, 4901 Birch Street, Newport Beach, CA 92660.

elections official or the Secretary of State. This is an unofficial, marked ballot prepared by California Ballot Pamphlet, a project
elections official or the Secretary of State. This is an unofficial,

NOTICE TO VOTERS — (Required by Law) This is not an official ballot or an official sample ballot prepared by the county
of Citizens for Economic Progress, 4901 Birch Street, Newport Beach, CA 92660.
