a)

25u
lear

HMO Casualty
of the Day

September 23, 1996

Sacramento, CA

Kaiser tells seriously injured patient to finish traction at his own expense.

They managed to relocate the femoral head that had broken out of my hip with the half that remained inside. I was
placed in traction and the femoral head was allowed to heal back together.

All during the month I spent in the trauma unit and the two weeks on the med center’s ortho floor, Kaiser was trying to get
me transferred over to their hospital. All during this time, Kaiser had always intimated in their contacts with me that they
would keep me to the end of my three month traction and that a doctor had been selected for me and was studying my case.

When I was transferred to Kaiser at the end of six weeks, the first person that I saw was not a doctor, but a discharge
er! This person told me that I had two weeks to arrange where I would go to finish my traction at my own expense.
I was stunned, and didn’t know what I was going to do. When! first met my Kaiser doctor, I asked him for help and
was told not to lay my guilt trips on him. During ‘the two weeks I was there, my doctor’s assistant who was a new
resident took off a perfectly good cast and replaced it with one so tight that the bone which went to my little toe now
goes undemeath it. 1 was told that if my initial treatment had been up to Kaiser, they would have pinned my hip. This
would not have been the best treatment for me, but it would have been by far the best treatment for their bottom line.
My hospital stay and subsequent care would have been sharply reduced.
At the end of two weeks, and without a place I could afford to go, we put a hospital bed in my mother’s family room
and she took care of me. This took considerable effort as she was 7%, a childhood polio victim, and on a walker at the
time. Kaiser said that we would have one home health visit and then would be on our own. When the nurse came for
that one visit, my attorney’s investigator was there. She stated that she was only there to observe because my attorney
had some concerns regarding possible patient abandonment. The Kaiser home health person was stunned, and quickly
opened a large book full of phone numbers and asked to use the phone. All of a sudden, months of home health care
seemed to come out of the woodwork.
While I was at my mother’s house, I developed a red spot on my ankle point where some of my pins were located. An
appointment with a Kaiser podiatrist was arranged and I was transported by Paratransit in a wheelchair to see the
doctor. After an appointment that lasted only ten minutes, the doctor who had never seen me before, stated that the red
area looked like it was going away and would be no problem. I was amazed that this could be determined by only one
visit. Well, six weeks later we were finally able to get the resulting wound closed.
In my case I was just lucky to have been transported to the medical center initially instead of Kaiser. Had it been the
other way around, my quality of life would have been much diminished.

Every day until the November 5 election—when Californians will vote on the new patient safeguards against managed care abuses
established by Proposition 216—the face and story of another casualty of managed care care-cutting will be faxed to media, opinion
leaders, and to nurse leaders throughout the state who will distribute and post the stories daily in lunch rooms, community meet-
ings, and other public places.

For more information, contact Chuck Idelson 415-437-3325 or Jamie Court 310-392-0522
