BALANCE ¢ THIRD QUARTER 1996

ASSOCIATION FOR CALIFORNIA TORT REFORM

Hopper, State Director of the National Federation of
Independent Business.

Supreme Court Tightens Punitives

The U.S. Supreme Court’s punitive damage decision
in BMW y, Gore showed a new and higher level of
appreciation for the “due process” arguments that ACTR
and others have been making to the court over the past
decade. In the May decision, the court threw out the $2
million verdict as unconstitutionally excessive.

The court set out a three-part test for judges reviewing
future jury verdicts: (1) The “reprehensibility” of the
defendant’s conduct, including considering whether
personal injury or economic damage occurred, (2) the
ratio between the punitive damage award and the actual
amount of harm caused, and (3) the relationship between
the punitive award and civil and criminal penalties for
the same activity.

ACTR and the American Tort Reform Association
jointly filed an amicus brief in the BMW case.

AROUND THE NATION

Louisiana Enacts Major Reforms

Louisiana Governor Mike Foster has signed three bills
to establish proportionate liability, return Louisiana to a
negligence standard in premises liability and related
property cases, and eliminate the only exception to the
state’s prohibition on punitive damages — cases
involving hazardous substances. Governor Foster, who
called a special session to enact the legislation after his
election last fall, noted that hazardous material
mishandling is sufficiently deterred by other civil
sanctions and by criminal penalties.

Clinton Veto Sticks

President Clinton’s veto of compromise product
liability reform legislation was upheld on a 258-163 vote
to override in the House of Representatives, with 33
Democrats voting for override. Senator Jay Rockefeller
(D-West Virginia), a long-time leader for product liability
reform, told reporters, “Unfortunately, special interest
and raw political considerations in the White House have
overridden sound policy judgment.” The measure would
have limited the liability of retailers who have nothing to
do with the manufacture of a product and adopted
California’s limited joint and several liability reforms.

Protecting Volunteers

The U.S. Senate has voted to extend federal Tort Claims
Act protection to health care professionals who face
medical malpractice claims arising from volunteer services
provided in medically underserved areas anywhere in the
nation. The measure does not preempt state laws that
provide greater legal protection for volunteers.

Securities Suits Shift?

Early indications show a drop in the number of class
action securities suits filed in federal courts since
federal reforms were enacted in December. » But filing
in state courts has jumped.

Tower C. Snow Jr., chairman of the securities
litigation practice group at Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison

in San Francisco, told the Daily Journal he has seen a
30% to 40% decline. Snow and Joseph Grundfest, a
Stanford Law School professor and former SEC
commissioner, said notice provisions, a judge’s ability to
pick lead plaintiff shareholders, and stronger deterrents
against frivolous lawsuits are significant factors in the
new law’s effectiveness to date.

Grundfest says, however, that state court filings in
California since January first are about five times
greater than in the same period a year ago.

AROUND THE STATE

Auto-Insurance Cost Cutter Qualifies

A proposal to prohibit uninsured drivers from suing to
recover non-economic damages (such as pain and suffering
and emotional distress) has qualified for the November 5
ballot. Sponsored by “Californians for Personal
Responsibility,” chaired by California Insurance
Commissioner Chuck Quackenbush, the measure would
similarly bar recovery for drunk drivers. ACTR has
endorsed the proposal as a step toward broader reforms in
the auto liability system.

“Health” Initiatives Opposed

The ACTR Board of Directors has adopted an opposed
position to the two managed health care initiatives that have
qualified for the November 5 ballot. Both measures would
result in more non-productive litigation by, among other
things, effectively killing mandatory arbitration agreements.

Client Fraud Investigation Continues

AUS. Attorney’s office investigation of insurance and
client fraud in personal injury cases is expanding,
according to reports by the Daily Journal. _Announced
last year as the “Medlaw Project,” the investigation
involves about 300 lawyers, law office administrators,
doctors, and chiropractors, federal prosecutors say. The
client fraud charges are based on a novel theory that a
kickback payment to a lawyer from a medical provider
is extra attorney compensation that a client did not
bargain for ina contingency fee agreement.

IN THE COURTS

ACTR Brief Filed in Robbery Suit

ACTR has filed an amicus brief (Kentucky Fried
Chicken of California v. Los Angeles County Superior
Court) with the California Supreme Court supporting a fast
food company’s attempt to win a summary judgment in a
suit brought by a customer alleging emotional distress
suffered during a robbery. The robber told a store clerk he
would kill the customer unless the clerk “quit stalling” and
turned over money from the cash register.

Appeals Court OKs Private Enforcement

The First District Court of Appeal has ruled that an
Oakland lawyer may use the state’s unfair competition
statute to sue Lucky Stores over its alleged violation of
the Penal Code prohibiting selling cigarettes to minors.
State law permits district attorneys to file civil suits in

BALANCE ¢ THIRD QUARTER 1996

these circumstances but does not authorize suits by
private parties.

The case is another in an expanding attempt by trial
lawyers to use the unfair competition act to bring suits in
which they may win attorney fees.

ACTR has filed an amicus brief in a similar case before
the state Supreme Court (Reese v. Payless Drug Stores) in
which an attorney is attempting to use the unfair
competition act to sue over an alleged violation of a federal
law requiring warnings to be posted when selling products
containing artificial sweeteners.

Rare Securities Suit “Win”

Alliance Pharmaceutical Corporation has won a
dismissal of a securities class action lawsuit filed against it
under the pre-reform federal securities law. Such wins are
rare even when the suits are based on little or no evidence
of a misleading statement. Under the prior federal law,
even totally meritless claims could be used to extort
settlements because of high defense costs. The Alliance
suit was filed in 1992, immediately after the company
announced it was delaying clinical trials for some new
products. The dismissal was not a total win, however,
because the company was forced to incur more than $2
million in defense costs.

Sanctions in “Potty Suit”

A federal judge has ordered a San Diego man and his
attorney to pay the legal expenses of the city and a food
vendor he sued for emotional and punitive damages
because he was present when women used the men’s
room at the city’s baseball stadium during a music event
last year. The sanctions for frivolous litigation are the
latest, but not the last, development in a legal action that
is becoming a national model for lawsuit abuse. The
plaintiff has since filed both an appeal of the federal
sanction and a new case in state court. He is suing the
vendor Service America because it served him the beer
that motivated his repeated use of the facilities.

Drive-By Deep Pocket Theory Shot Down

The company insuring the driver of a car used in a
drive-by shooting is not liable to the victim, the Second
District Court of Appeal has unanimously ruled. The
court found that when a driver knows a passenger is
armed and that a shooting is likely, the driver’s insurer
has no duty to defend against a personal injury lawsuit.

VERBATIM

Women and Litigation

The costs and risk of litigation in the U.S. make
cosmetics a safer investment than contraceptives, or a
morning sickness pill, or many other drugs and medical
devices. — Anita Blair, General Counsel, Independent
Women’s Forum,

No Eyebrow

If punitive damages are to be “capped,” they ought
to be capped by statute, and not by eyebrow, —
syndicated columnist James J. Kilpatrick, writing on the
U.S. Supreme Court’s BMW v Gore decision.

ASSOCIATION FOR CALIFORNIA TORT REFORM

No Secret

It’s no secret that the California trial lawyers, who
are now calling themselves the consumer advocates of
California have had very heavy clout in Sacramento.
They have been a very effective special interest in

changing the law to their advantage.” — Gov. Pete
Wilson, California Bar Journal, April 1996.
Fed Up Judges

It sends another clear signal that the judiciary is
getting fed up with lawyers who run mass tort cases for
their own benefit, not that of ostensible clients. — Max
Boot, Wall Street Journal assistant features editor,
writing on Federal Judge Arthur Spector's order
dissolving a claimants’ committee made up of attorneys
whose litigation drove Dow Corning into bankruptcy,
April 3, 1996.

Creators vy. Destroyers

Sooner or later, Californians will recognize they need
protection from contingency-fee tyrants like Bill Lerach
who destroy companies, not from entrepreneurs like Alan

Shugart who create them. — Wall Street Journal
editorial, March 22, 1996.

Litigation Lotto

Litigation lotto is becoming the way of life in America.

~ I have joked with friends in other countries that when a

child trips on the sidewalk, the father chastises him —
and in the United States, the father congratulates him for
providing a lawsuit to fund his college education. —
Susan Vogel, San Francisco attorney and writer, San
Francisco Examiner, May 25, 1996.

Unfair Solutions

The law plays a critical role in promoting everyone's
health and safety by penalizing people and organizations
that operate negligently and by helping get compensation
to persons injured. But legal solutions are inefficient and
unfair when they are used to shift income, to provide
someone with punitive or emotional damages just
because someone else has the ability to pay.” San Diego
City Attorney John Witt, writing in the San Diego Union-
Tribune, May 13, 1996.

It Has To Change

Every single Californian is paying the price for the
current legal system, at the cash register, in lost jobs, in
quality of life. It simply has to change. — Frank Luntz,
president of Luntz Research, Washington Times, May 6,
1996.

TRIAL LAWYER WATCH
Public Seeing Through “Victimology”

Trial lawyers seem to be concluding that the public has
caught on to their favorite tactic of playing up their clients
as “victims” and fuzzing up the question of whether a
defendant is truly at fault. Former American Trial Lawyer
Association president Larry Stewart reportedly told ATLA
convention-goers that research is showing that “victims”
evoke negative attitudes from “substantial segments of
society” and no longer receive sympathy.

