(K-12 Teacher letter)

Dear Member,

Every week, a new story appears on TV or in the newspaper, blaming teachers, counselors and
other professional staff for a long list of problems: the lack of basic skills among young people
entering the job market, the increase in juvenile crime, the decline in values, and so on. You and
| know our schools have their fair share of problems. But we’ve also seen education reforms —
one set after another — forced upon schools by people who haven’t been inside a classroom in
many, many years. Most of these ‘reforms’ are nothing more than gimmicks.

To improve student achievement and restore public confidence in our schools, we must instill
high standards of conduct and achievement among our students. We cannot allow the latest
‘reform’ gimmick or the people pushing vouchers to lead us off course. As the November 5
election draws near, we as teachers need to support candidates at all levels of government who
are ready to support us in this effort. A look at the record demonstrates that when it comes to
education, there is a world of difference between President Clinton and Senator Dole:

@ President Clinton led the effort to expand Head Start to serve 50,000 more at-risk children.
Clinton vetoed the budget sent to him by Newt Gingrich and Bob Dole that would have denied
coverage to 100,000 children.

@ President Clinton’s Goals 2000 program moves away from the typical ‘‘top-down’’ style of
reform. Goals 2000 plants the seeds for efforts in each state to establish high academic
standards and then determine how each state will help schools achieve those standards. In
1991, Senator Dole co-sponsored a similar plan (America 2000) under President Bush. How-
ever, he voted to eliminate funds for Goals 2000 in 1994. Luckily, Dole’s effort failed.

@ President Clinton has reaffirmed his opposition to using vouchers as a way to divert public
tax dollars to private schools. Last year, the President rejected a bill — supported by Dole —
that would have handed over millions of public tax dollars to private schools.

@ The President has refused to go along with attempts by Gingrich and Dole to eliminate the
U.S. Department of Education.

@ President Clinton’s: Safe and Drug-Free Schools program provides funds for school districts to
develop their own curricula and projects to combat violence and keep young people off drugs.
The President’s crime bill also combats gang violence and bans 19 types of assault weapons.
The Clinton approach is beginning to have an impact: According to FBI statistics, juvenile crime
declined last year. Senator Dole voted against the assault-weapons ban, and Dole supported
a budget bill that would have cut the Safe and Drug-Free Schools program by 55%.

The Clinton and Dole records provide us with a clear choice on Tuesday, November 5. This
comparison explains why the 3,000 delegates to the American Federation of Teachers’ conven-
tion this August voted to endorse President Clinton for re-election. | urge you to consider these
issues as you cast your vote. Thank you.

In solidarity,

[Your name], President
[Name or initials of AFT Local]

we
