A Firm Hand in the Oval Office

Our nation needs a President who can articulate and implement
a consistent foreign policy: The President of the world's only
superpower must be steadfast in his support of American
policies and America's friends and allies. The President must
mean what he says, say what he means, and stick to it. Bill
Clinton's vacillation and indecisiveness undermines our position
at any negotiation -- whether on security or trade matters.

America Is and Must Remain the
Leader of the Free World

We did not win the Cold War without allies and friends, nor
should we contemplate facing future challenges without them.
At the end of the Gulf War, America was respected by friend
and foe alike. Bill Clinton has squandered this legacy. It must
be recaptured. America’s allies and friends must have their

“confidence in us restored. Potential enemies must know that
we will stand up to protect our interests.

Foreign Policy That Puts

American Interests First

The proven principle of “peace through strength" will guide Bob
Dole's foreign policy. Leadership in support of America’s vital
national interests will be his course of action. Our chief goals

“ will be to maintain U.S. economic, political, and military access
to key regions, promote democratization, thwart the proliferation
of weapons of mass destruction and their delivery systems,
and punish those states and movements that plan or conduct
terrorist act against American citizens.

» Neither the United Nations, nor any other international
organization or foreign country, will set America’s foreign policy
agenda. Paring down the U.N. bureeucracy and genuine U.N
reform will be a high priority.

+ Foreign aid will be offered only as a precise targeted instrument
of American foreign policy, designed to advance specific U.S.
foreign policy goals. It will not be an international welfare
program.

* The United States must once again lead the North Atlantic
Alliance. The Dole administration will ensure that the
enlargement of NATO to include the Central and East European
democracies will be rapid, with Poland, Hungary, and the Czech
Republic being admitted by 1998.

* America has a distinct national interest in a firm security
relationship with a democratic Russia that respects the
sovereignty and independence of its neighbors. The Dole
administration will seek cooperation with Russia, but will not
paper over differences or ignore behavior that is inconsistent
with Russia's international obligations.

* American policy toward China will reflect our continuing desire
to promote economic and political liberalization in that country.
At the same time, we will not tolerate efforts by China to
intimidate Taiwan or any other of its neighbors. The Dole
Administration will be committed to reviving American leadership
in Asia.

+ In Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bob Dole’s main priority will be
to ensure that the Bosnian people are provided with enough
weapons and sufficient training to defend themselves against
potential future aggression. Bob Dole will also promote an
approach that supports the democratic process in Bosnia and
brings indicted war criminals to justice.

* America will continue to work closely with our friends and
allies in the Middle East toward promoting the strengthening of
democracy and rule of law, the acceleration of economic
development and the extension of peace.

+ We reaffirm our commitment to the territorial integrity of all of
the states in the region, as well as our special relationship with
out democratic ally, Israel.

* Only through a policy of relentless pressure on Castro's regime
can we protect U.S. interests, prompt economic and democratic
political reform in Cuba, and help the Cuban people. The Dole
administration will continue to maintain an embargo on Cuba,
until the Cuban people are free from dictatorship.

A Better America

The end of the Cold War closes one chapter in our history and
presents us with new challenges to consolidate freedom and
U.S. interests around the world. In also confronts our great
Nation with new dangers. Terrorism is on the rise, both at home
and abroad. America must have a leader who not only acts
decisively to prevent terror, but acts swiftly to seek and punish
perpetrators. Terrorists and those who support them must pay
a high price for their evil deeds. As we move into the next
century, we must keep in mind that America has proven that it
can meet the greatest of challenges and conquer the greatest
of threats.

Autnor:zed and paid for a DolerKemp 96, Kober: Lighthizer, lrcasurer
810 Ernst Street, Northeas: * Suite 300 * Masn-rgton, IC 20002 * (202) 414-6400 * herp:/iwww.dalckemp96.org

