ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT PLATFORM

large U.S. cities is so severe that it poses a sig-
nificant health risk. Oil production—drilling,
refining, and shipping—is environmentally haz-
ardous, and devastating in the form of oil spills.

2. See Allen, Scott, “Study: Air Pollution Kill-
ing Thousands,” The Des Moines Register, May
9, 1996, p. 1. Significantly, officials at the En-
vironmental Protection Agency accepted the
probable accuracy of this estimate.

3. If the real costs associated with the use of
polluting fuels were appropriately distributed—
for example, if the environmental costs of gaso-
line were included in its cost at the pump—the
free market system would have eliminated fos-
sil fuels long ago. In essence, the government
is blocking free enterprise and free market com-
petition by subsidizing fossil fuels and not their
nonpolluting competitors.

4. The cost of energy to our nation is a substan-
tial proportion of our GNP. We spent 15% of
our GNP on energy in 1990, or a total of $847
billion. According to the schedule proposed by
the Natural Law Party, we would spend only
10.2% by the year 2000. This would reduce en-
ergy costs from $847 billion in 1990 to $755
billion in the year 2000—while allowing an in-
crease of our GNP from $5.5 trillion to $7.4 tril-
lion. This schedule of reductions entails a shift
to cleaner, more sustainable energy sources.

The programs supported by the Natural Law
Party for cleaning up the environment and pro-
tecting it from irreversible damage will stimu-
late the economy—actually paying a dividend
of increased energy efficiency and economic

38

vitality. Cleaning up polluted rivers and lakes
will increase fishing industries, increase tourism,
and increase revenues from outdoor recreational
activities. Cleaning the air will reduce medical
costs of respiratory disease and lung cancer. Pro-
tecting forests and reducing exhaust emissions
will avert potentially disastrous expenses of
adapting to climatic changes due to global warm-
ing.

5. Research shows that existing energy-conser-
vation technologies can cut the use of fossil fu-
els in half, eliminating dependence on foreign
oil—the largest component of our trade deficit.
One study, entitled America’s Energy Choices,
published by the Union of Concerned Scientists,
recently concluded that the U.S. can dramati-
cally reduce energy use and air pollution, and
increase the use of renewable technologies at a
significant cost savings to the nation.

According to a study by the Electric Power Re-
search Institute, the introduction of energy con-
servation practices could reduce electricity use
in the U.S. by as much as 55% (Romm, “The
Economic Benefits of Combatting Global Warm-
ing,” 1992).

6. An essay by Michael Porter of the Harvard
Business School contends that well-designed
government regulations can promote technologi-
cal advances and restrain the cost of meeting
environmental goals. He cites the examples of
Japan and Germany, where environmental regu-
lations enable those countries to dominate world
markets for pollution-control technologies (The
Economist, May 30, 1992).

STRENGTHENING DEMOCRACY

OUR NATION’S FOUNDERS strove to cre-
ate a democracy that would guarantee fundamen-
tal human rights and hold the government ac-
countable to the people. The Natural Law Party
is committed to restoring this vision to the
American political process and overcoming the
bipartisan conflict and special-interest control
that has paralyzed and subverted our government.

The Natural Law Party supports long-overdue
election and campaign reforms to ensure (a)
equal access to the ballot, the media, and the
public for all qualified candidates, (b) the elimi-
nation of PAC and soft-money funding of cam-
paigns, and (c) a shift toward public sponsor-
ship of campaigns in order to reduce the undue
influence of special-interest money on election
outcomes. Such reforms will fulfill every
American’s right to complete information about
all candidates and their platforms while freeing
elected officials to focus on serving their coun-
try rather than seeking campaign contributions.

The Natural Law Party envisions a future in
which elections are a time of national celebra-
tion, free of negative campaigning—a time when
the nation takes pride in its achievements and
plans collectively for the future.

ELECTION REFORM
The Problem

There is no Constitutional basis for America’s
current two-party system. In fact, George Wash-
ington and Thomas Jefferson specifically warned
against political parties, which they feared would
become entrenched as elitists and servers of spe-
cial interests, unresponsive to the needs and de-
sires of the people.

Today we find ourselves in this very situation.
Frustrated by political gridlock, many Ameri-
cans feel that government has grown into a self-
serving, self-perpetuating partisan body that nei-

39

ther reflects nor recognizes their desires. Recent
polls indicate that 86% of Americans feel that
their elected officials will never solve the
nation’s problems, partly because political in-
fighting has frozen the machinery of govern-
ment. Consequently, the U.S. has the lowest
voter turnout of any country in the world.

Over 60% of Americans favor the formation of
a new, major political party. Americans want
change and are deeply frustrated with both Re-
publican and Democratic candidates. Tradition-
ally, third parties have introduced important new
ideas, such as women’s suffrage and the aboli-
tion of slavery, into our national political debate.
As former Chief Justice Earl Warren commented,
“All political ideas cannot and should not be
channeled into the programs of our two major
parties. History has amply proved the virtue of
political activity by minority, dissident groups,
which innumerable times have been in the van-
guard of democratic thought and whose pro-
grams were ultimately accepted. The absence of
such voices would be a symptom of grave ill-
ness in our society” [1]. Yet the Republican and
Democratic parties continue to exert an effec-
tive stranglehold on the political process—which
has been manipulated during the past century to
favor those in office and to discourage new ideas
from emerging via third parties and their candi-
dates.

Current campaign laws unfairly discriminate
against independent and third-party candidates.
In 1996, Republicans and Democrats will receive
$134 million taxpayer dollars to run their gen-
eral election campaigns— including $25 million
to hold meaningless presidential nominating
conventions—while independent and new-party
candidates do not enjoy the same support. In
most cases, access to the ballot is automatic for
Republicans and Democrats, but independent
and third-party candidates face the most rigid,

