Right to Vote on Taxes Act
Page 10

approval process set forth in Section 4:

[Annotation: An assessment is deemed ‘existing on the effective date of this Article,”
even if it is the type of assessment which comes up for annual renewal. As long as
the assessment rates and methodology remained the same from year to year, the fact
that the assessment is ‘imposed” annually would not necessarily trigger applicability
of the requirements of this Article. This would be true even if the total revenue to the
district increased due to changes in land use for specific parcels (e.g., newly-created
or improved parcels). Again, as long as the assessment rates and methodology
remain the same, an increase in revenue as the result of land use changes would not
trigger applicability of Section 4. However, the procedures and approval process of
Section 4 would apply to the entire assessment in the event the assessments were
increased either by the rate of assessment or by a change in methodology].

(a) any assessment imposed exclusively to finance the capital costs
or maintenance and operation expenses for sidewalks, streets,
sewers, water, flood control, drainage systems or vector control.
Subsequent increases in such assessments shall be subject to the
procedures and approval process set forth in Section 4;

[Annotation: This is the ‘traditional purposes” exception. These existing assessments
do not need property owner approval to continue. However, future assessments for
these traditional purposes are covered.]

(b) any assessment imposed pursuant to a petition signed by the
persons owning all of the parcels subject to the assessment at the
time the assessment is initially imposed. Subsequent increases in
such assessments shall be subject to the procedures and approval
process set forth in Section 4;

[Annotation: This provision exempts land secured financing arrangements used by
developers. This does not concern us because increased tax liability is capitalized
into the purchase price]

(c) any assessment the proceeds of which are exclusively used to
repay bonded indebtedness of which the failure to pay would
violate the Contract Impairment Clause of the Constitution of the
United States of America;

[Annotation: Even an amendment to the California Constitution cannot impair a
contract protected by the federal constitution. However, this exception can only be
