care to which patients or enrollees are entitled. This section
shall not prohibit a health care business from using capitat-
ed rates.

Section 5. Written Criteria for the
Denial of Care.

Health insurers shall establish criteria for authorizing or
denying payment for care and for assuring quality of care.
The criteria shall:

(a) Be determined by physicians, nurses or other appropri-
ately licensed health professionals, acting within their
existing scope of practice and actively providing direct care
to patients;

(b) Use sound clinical principles and processes;

(c) Be updated at least annually; and

(d) Be publicly available.

Section 6. Patients Must Be Examined
Before Care is Denied.

In arranging for medical care and in providing direct care to
patients, no health care business shall refuse to authorize
the health care services to which a patient is entitled and
which have been recommended by a patient's physician or
other appropriately licensed health care professional acting
within their existing scope of practice unless the following
conditions are met:

(a) the employee or contractor who authorizes the denial on
behalf of the health care business has physically examined
the patient in a timely manner;

(b) that employee or contractor is an appropriately licensed
health care professional with the education, training, and
relevant expertise that is appropriate for evaluating the spe-
cific clinical issues involved in the denial; and

(c) any denial and the reasons for it have been communicat-
ed by that employee or contractor in a timely manner in
writing to the patient and the physician or other licensed
health care professional responsible for the care of the
patient.

Section 7. Physicians Determine Medical
Care.

A physician, nurse, or other licensed caregiver who is an
employee or contractor of a health care business and who is
responsible for establishing procedures for assuring quality
of care or in any way determining what care will be provid-
ed to patients shall be subject to the same standards and
disciplinary procedures as all other physicians, nurses, or
other licensed caregivers providing direct patient care in
California.

TEA CS > EEE ST TL EL TSE ITE
Section 8. Safe Physician and Nursing
Levels in Health Facilities.

(a) All health care facilities shall provide minimum safe and
adequate staffing of physicians, nurses and other licensed
and certified caregivers.
(b) The Director of Health Services shall periodically update
staffing standards designed to assure minimum safe and
adequate levels of patient care in facilities licensed by the
Department of Health Services. Those standards shall be
based upon:

(1) the severity of patient illness;

(2) factors affecting the period and quality of patient
recovery; and

(3) any other factor substantially related to the condition
and health care needs of patients.
(c) For those health services which are provided by health
care service plans licensed by the Department of
Corporations and provided in organized medical clinics not
licensed by the Department of Health Services, the
Commissioner of Corporations shall periodically update
staffing standards designed to assure minimum safe and
adequate levels of patient care.
(d) Licensed health facilities shall make available for public
inspection reports of the daily staffing patterns utilized by
the facility and a written plan for assuring compliance with
the staffing standards required by law.

Section 9. Disclosure of Excessive
Overhead of Health Insurers.

(a) Health care insurers shall disclose to all purchasers of
health insurance coverage the amount of the total premi-
ums, fees, and other periodic payments received by the
insurer spent providing for health care services to its sub-
scribers or enrollees and the amount spent on administrative
costs. For the purposes of this Act, administrative costs are
defined to include all of the following:

(1) Marketing and advertising, including sales costs and
commissions;

(2) Total compensation, including bonuses, incentives, and
stock options for officers and directors of the corporation;

(3) Dividends, shares of profit, or any other compensation
received by shareholders, if any, or any other revenue in
excess of expenditures for the direct provision of health care;
and

(4) All other expenses not related to the provision of direct
health care services.
(b) Should the amount of administrative costs exceed 10%
of the total premiums, fees, and other periodic payments
received by the insurer, the insurer shall further disclose to
all its purchasers of health insurance the specific amounts
spent on marketing and advertising, total compensation, on

dividends, profits or excess revenues, and on other expenses
not related to the provision of direct health care services.

(c) The disclosures required by this section also shall be filed
with the appropriate state agency and be made available for
public inspection.

ESET ARE ENE EP PRET TREE 7 BE ARTI SE PT
Section 10. Protection of Patient Privacy.

The confidentiality of patients’ medical records shall be fully
protected as provided by law. No section of this Act shall be
interpreted as changing such protections except as follows:
No health care business shall sell a patient's medical records
to any third party without the express written authorization
of the patient.

Section 11. Public Disclosure.

(a) The appropriate agencies shall collect and review such
information as is necessary to assure compliance with this
Act.

(b) Each private health care business and its affiliated enter-
prises with more than 100 employees in the aggregate shall
file annually with the responsible agency:

(1) data or studies used to determine the quality, scope or
staffing of health care services, including modifications in
such services;

(2) financial reports substantially similar to the reports
required of non-profit health care businesses under existing
law;

(3) copies of all state and federal tax and securities
reports and filings; and

(4) a description of the subject and outcome of all com-
plaints, lawsuits, arbitrations or other legal proceedings
brought against the business or any affiliated enterprise,
unless such disclosure is prohibited by court order or applic-
able law.

(c) Any information collected or filed in order to comply with
this section shall be available for public inspection.

Section 12. Interpretation.

(a) This law is written in plain language so that people who
are not lawyers can read and understand it. When any ques-
tion of interpretation arises it is the intent of the people that
this Act shall be interpreted in a manner that is consistent
with its findings, purpose and intent and, to the greatest
extent possible, advances and safeguards the rights of
patients, enhances the quality of health care services to
which consumers are entitled, and furthers the application of
the reforms contained in this Act.

(b) If any provision of this Act conflicts with any other provi-
sion of California statute or legal precedent, this Act shall
prevail.

Ee Na See oe ae a
Section 13. Implementation and
Enforcement.

(a) The provisions of this Act shall be administered and
enforced by the appropriate state agencies, which shall issue
regulations, hold hearings, and take any other administrative
actions that are necessary to carry out the purposes and
enforce the provisions of this Act.

(b) Health care consumers shall have standing to intervene
in any administrative matter arising from this Act. Health
care consumers also may go directly to court to enforce any
provision of this Act individually or in the public interest, and
any successful enforcement of the provisions of this Act by
consumers confers a substantial benefit upon the general
public. Conduct in violation of this Act is wrongful and in
violation of public policy.

(c) Any private health care business found by a court in
either a private or governmental enforcement action to have
engaged in a pattern and practice of deliberate or willful
violation of the provisions of this Act shall for a period of
five years be prohibited from asserting as a defense or oth-
erwise relying on any of the antitrust law exemptions con-
tained in Business and Professions Code S. 16770, Health
and Safety Code S. 1342.6, or Insurance Code S. 10133.6 in
any civil or criminal action against it for restraint of trade,
unfair trading practices, unfair competition or other viola-
tions of Business and Professions Code, Division 7, Part 2.
(d) The remedies contained in this Act are in addition and
cumulative to any other remedies provided by statute or
common law.

Section 14. Severability.

(a) If any provision, sentence, phrase, word or group of
words in this Act, or their application to any person or cir-
cumstance, is held to be invalid, that invalidity shall not
affect other provisions, sentences, phrases, words, groups of
words or applications of this Act. To this end, the provisions,
sentences, phrases, words and groups of words in this Act
are severable.

(b) Whenever a provision, sentence, phrase, word or group of
words is held to be in conflict with federal law, that provi-
sion, sentence, phrase, word or group of words shall remain
in full force and effect to the maximum extent permitted by
federal law.

Section 15. Amendment.

(a) This Act may only be amended by the Legislature in ways
that further its purposes. Any other change in the provisions
of this Act must be approved by vote of the people. In any
judicial proceeding concerning a legislative amendment to
this Act, the court shall exercise its independent judgment as
