In order to obtain systematic information on the cost of mobilehome rent control programs,
this author undertook a survey of local government expenditures on their programs. Each city
was asked to provide information about the cost of its program. Cities which did not separately
account for the cost of their programs were asked to provide estimates of the amount of staff
time devoted to the program and the cost of that time.

II. The Cost of Administering Mobilehome Rent Control Laws

The average net cost per jurisdiction for the 75 rent control programs that supplied cost
information and were in effect throughout the 1993-94 calendar year was approximately
$18,500.* The combined net cost for these programs combined was approximately $1.4 million.

Costs varied substantially between jurisdictions. In 16 jurisdictions, the programs were
completely funded by registration fees and/or hearings fees. In 22 jurisdictions, administrators
indicated that the cost of their programs was minimal. A substantial portion of the total costs
Statewide were incurred by a few jurisdictions. Two jurisdictions alone incurred approximately
40% of the overall statewide net costs for mobilehome rent regulations.

a. Self-Financing Programs

The 16 self-financing programs were typically financed by annual registration fees, paid by
park owners, which ranged from a few dollars to $107 per space per year. In most jurisdictions
the annual fees were $50 or under. In most of these jurisdictions, all or a portion of the
registration fee could be passed through by park-owners to residents.

b. Programs with a "Minimal" Cost

22 jurisdictions did not undertake a specific accounting of the costs of their mobilehome rent
control program and did not provide a cost estimate, but indicated that the costs of the program
were minimal. The types of responses about program costs that fell into this category were:
occasional phone inquiries were received; an hour or two a month was spent on rent control
issues, or virtually no work was associated with the program. For the purposes of the overall cost
analysis in this report, it is assumed that the average expenditure in these jurisdictions was
$3,000. (This amount would cover about 70 hours of a staff planner’s time.)

8 This total is calculated by adding the following sums: 1) $1,347,383 net expenditures reported by 53
jurisdictions; and 2) a total of $66,000 in expenditures by the 22 jurisdictions that =— that their expenses were
minimal ($3,000 per jurisdiction).
