programs to increase the number of minority and women students graduating in their chosen field. For
example, the Mathematics, Engineering, Science Achievement program, better known as MESA, is
designed to increase the number of underrepresented students who succeed in math and science and
graduate with degrees in math-based fields from four-year universities. MESA operates 66 centers in
California and serves over 20,000 students. Two of the sub-programs of MESA are the Minority
Engineering Program, MEP, which provides support for students in engineering and computer science
and the California Community College Program, CCCP, which assists community college students in
math, engineering, or science in successfully transferring to four-year institutions and attaining math-
based degrees. A program that is much like the CCCP is known as the Puente Project. The Puente
Project is designed to promote Latino student transfers from California State Universities to University
of California campuses. :
At UCLA, the Campus Retention Committee helps to administer four programs which seek to
encourage students to remain at UCLA. Together the African Student Union Academic Support,
MEChA Calmécac, Retention of American Indian Students Now! (RAIN), and the Samahang Pilipino
Education and Retention (SPEAR) programs focus on improving the retention rates and overall
academic achievement of the Black, Chicano/Latino, American-Indian, and Pilipino UCLA student
populations. Retention efforts at UCLA also focus on students of color who display an interest in
pursuing degrees in graduate or professional schools after earning their undergraduate degrees.

THE WORKING WORLD

Despite the hard work and effort put in by students to become qualified for many different kinds
of careers, White women and people of color continue to be underrepresented in the ranks of
professionals and high-level managers. Affirmative action programs for working adults have operated
to reverse these trends and are one important factor behind much of the progress that has nonetheless
been achieved.

University hiring represents a context where the educational setting becomes a workplace
for students before, during, and after they have obtained their degrees. Affirmative action programs
operate in staff hiring to increase representation of both women and people of color. The UC-Berkeley
Staff Affirmative Action Office (SAAO) distributes an annual affirmative action plan to over 400
deans, directors, department chairs and administrative officers. In addition, the SAAO sets goals based
on state and federal guidelines in order to achieve a diverse workforce that reflects the community.
SAAO assesses the University's efforts to create a diverse workforce through outreach, recruitment,
Staff sensitivity trainings and management skills workshops for underrepresented groups.

SAAO Outreach includes recruitment ads placed with major newspapers and in local
publications. SAAO also reviews applications for vacant positions and extends searches when a diverse
applicant pool has not been achieved or the pool of applications is not significantly large. The SAAO
operates diversity trainings for its staff, too. The office has delivered over 30 workshops to
approximately 700 employees, trained 30 volunteer staff facilitators and designed 7 educational
modules. In terms of faculty, the UC's academic recruitment efforts focus on drawing from the largest
Possible pool of doctoral degree recipients. To do this, UC distributes faculty job announcements

Presented by the
UCLA School of Law Affirmative Action
Outreach, Education & Organizing Project
For More Information, Please E-Mail Us at "Mattson@Law3.Law.UCLA.Edu"
& Visit Our Affirmative Action Homepage at "http://www.law.ucla.edu/Class/Archive/CivAA/" 9
