(CCRD)

(a) The state shall not discriminate against, or grant preferential treatment to, any individual or group
on the basis of race, sex, color, ethnicity, or national origin in the operation of public employment,
public education, or public contracting.

(b) This section shall apply only to action taken after the section’s effective date.

(c) nothing in this section shall be interpreted as prohibiting bona fide qualifications based on sex
which are reasonably necessary to the normal operation of public employment, public education, or
public contracting.

() Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as invalidating any court order or consent decree which
is in force as of the effective date of this section.

(©) Nothing in this sections shall be interpreted as prohibiting action which must be taken to establish or
maintain eligibility for any federal program, where ineligibility would result in a loss of federal funds
to the state.

(f) For purposes of this section, "state" shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the state itself,
any city, county, city and county, public university system, including the University of California,
community college district, school district, special district, or any other political subdivision or
governmental instrumentality of or within the state.

(g) The remedies available for violations of this section shall be the same, regardless of the injured
party's race, sex, color, ethnicity, or national origin, as are otherwise available for violations of then-
existing California antidiscrimination law.

(h) This section shall be self-executing. If any part or parts of this section are found to be in conflict
with federal law or the United States Constitution, the section shall be implemented to the maximum
extent that federal law and the United States Constitution permit. Any provision held invalid shall be
severable from the remaining portions of this section.

Presented by the
UCLA School of Law Affirmative Action
Outreach, Education & Organizing Project
For More Information, Please E-Mail Us at “Mattson@Law3.Law.UCLA.Edu"
& Visit Our Affirmative Action Homepage at "htt p://www.law.ucla.edu/Class/Archive/CivAA/" 11
