Re-elect Bowen
to Assembly

She’s an independent thinker

ew local political races have generated as much
heat as the campaign for the 53rd State Assembly
District, which spans the coast from Venice to the
Palos Verdes Peninsula.

The race has attracted statewide attention as Republi-

an independent-minded Democrat facing her toughest
challenge yet in the form of Torrance Councilman Dan

Walker has a strong

ounding in local gov:
ernment, along with fa-
miliarity with environ- At issue: Who should
mental issues after represent voters in the
serving a stint on the 53th State Assembly
Los Angeles Regional District?
Water Quality Control We recommend: Debra
Board. Walker has also

marched to his own

sues, such as when he authored a 1990 initiative target-
ing the Mobil Oil refinery. On that issue, he was opposed
‘all other members of the City Council, not to mention

opponent of giving more decision-making powers to local
government...

“That's simply not the case. Bowen co-authored a pill to
keep the “three strikes” bill jntact after a court chal-
lenge, and she authored legislation that would have re-
quired criminals to reimburse taxpayers for trial costs.

Bowen was also one of a handful of Democrats who
voted to expand charter schools, which offer parents and
teachers more control over decision-making.

A number of, other items in her jegislative record lead
us to endorse Bowen for a third, and final, term in the
Assembly. She pushed for government efficiency by urg-
ing the merger of the Franchise ‘Tax Board and Board of

nology issues — something that has benefited a district
50 dependent on such technologies.

‘A vocal critic of the state lottery, Bowen’s concerns
were strongly vindicated last week when & report by the
lottery’s prime contractor said lottery inefficiency was.
costing public schools nearly @ pillion dollars a year.

We've disagreed with Bowen on certain issues, to be
sure. But even on those occasions, we've respected her
Jogic and explanations. And her ability to work with law-
makers on both sides of the aisle has been commendable.

Walker, too, has staked out reasonable stances on
many issues. But Bowen’s record, we believe, js solid
enough to attract voters of both political parties.

We urge residents of the Sard Assembly District to sup-
port Debra Bowen on Election Day.

Bulk Rate

USA Direct

“The tenor of Walker’s

campaign against
Bowen troubles us.”
