The Honorable Tom Hayden
April 5, 1995

Page 5

investigate the situation. Written incident reports are summarized by calendar
year and maintained in the Department's Wildlife Management Division files.
During 1994, 10 mountain lions were killed in response to threats to public safety.

. Question: Has the Department observed a decline or increase in the population

of deer or bighorn sheep? If there has been a decline of deer or sheep in any

region, to what extent is it due to mountain lions, and has the decline occurred
since 1990?

Response: Trends in deer and bighorn sheep populations vary throughout their
range in California. In some cases, it appears that deer numbers have declined
primarily as a result of long-term habitat loss, drought, and other factors. In other
cases, deer numbers have remained stable or increased with the presence of
mountain lions. In general, evidence available to the Department does not
indicate that mountain lion predation has caused major declines in deer
populations, but it may slow or prevent recovery in herds which have been
reduced by other factors.

Populations of bighorn sheep in the Peninsular ranges (State listed as threatened
and proposed for Federal listing as endangered) have been declining due primarily
to poor recruitment of young animals. These population declines began prior to
1990, and several factors may be limiting our abilities to help stimulate population
recoveries, including mountain lion predation, disease, and range conditions.
Mountain lions have been determined to be the cause of approximately 22 percent
of bighorn mortalities in the Peninsular bighorn sheep populations in Riverside
and San Diego counties. See

In the three-year period 1987-89, the Department selectively removed three
mature male mountain lions which were preying on a small population of
California bighorn sheep in the Lee Vining Canyon area of Mono County. This
step was taken to prevent excessive lion predation on this small population of
recently reintroduced bighorn sheep with the intent to allow their expansion.
Following the removal of three lions during the period 1987-89, the bighorn sheep
population expanded from approximately 35 animals in 1989 to well over

100 animals in 1994.

. Question: Staff analysis of the bill says that "the only management strategy

closed to the Department under Proposition 117 is the allowance of random killing
of mountain lions by amateur sport hunters". Is this interpretation correct in the
view of either yourself or the Department? What management strategies is the
