What it gives with
one hand, Ittakes
away with the other!

PROPOSITION 217:
IMPACT ON LOCAL COMMUNITIES

Proposition 217 proposes a number of sweeping changes to California’s tax laws. It would increase taxes by
$700 million by raising the top personal income tax rate from 9.3% to 10% and 11%. This increase would
effectively impose on Californians the highest personal income tax rate in the nation. Proponents claim their
measure would simply “soak the rich”. However, a close look tells a very different story. While some cities and
counties would see additional revenues from the state initially, what the measure gives with one hand, it more

than takes away with the other. Read on:

PROPOSITION 217 WOULD PUNISH
CITIES THAT ATTRACT NEW
EMPLOYERS AND RESIDENTS

Proposition 217 would permanently freeze each
city’s share of property tax revenue. Therefore, a
city could never increase its percentage of property
tax dollars from what it is today. And that means
some cities would lose money. Just as happens
today, a city must pay for any services that new
business or home construction require and in-
creased population demand. But under Proposition
217, the new property tax revenue from that
development would not be allowed to stay in that
city. Prop. 217 would require growth in property
taxes be shared with other cities in the county to
comply with the measure’s locked-in formula. Your
city’s new property tax revenue could end up going
somewhere else in the county.

OPENS THE DOOR TO INCREASED LOCAL
CHARGES, FEES AND ASSESSMENTS

So, what would a city do if suddenly the property
tax revenue it was depending upon to fund
public safety, street improvements and other
necessities was dispersed to other cities?
Proposition 217 would leave little choice
but to find the needed money somewhere
else — through increased fees, charges
and assessments.

IMPACT ON COMMUNITY
REVITALIZATION
PROJECTS

Future community redevelopment could be
impacted by Proposition 217. The initiative would
exclude redevelopment agencies from its property
tax allocation formula. Redevelopment agencies are
among the most potent tools local governments
have to revitalize blighted areas and expand local
economies to create jobs. In addition, redevelop-
ment projects provide affordable housing, child
care, senior citizen homes, and restore and preserve
historic areas.

How would Prop. 217 harm redevelopment? The
function of a redevelopment agency is to identify
blighted areas, create a redevelopment project in
that area and capture the growth in the property tax
dollars from within that area to fund the improve-
ments. But, Proposition 217 contains language
that could make that illegal because it would
be considered “a reallocation of property
taxes,” which the measure prohibits. This
could prevent redevelopment agencies from
collecting the dollars necessary to fund their
projects. Without the ability to capture new
property tax dollars, new redevelopment projects
simply cannot occur. In addition, Proposition 217
does not include redevelopment agencies in its
definition of “local agencies” — thereby excluding

[continued on reverse]

