7. Patient Protection Act: Prop 216 Cures Arbitration Abuse

ARTIGUEAL

Prohibits mandatory and secret arbitration of medical grievances as a condition for health coverage. -

A Reaffirms the right of consumers to seek redress and justice directly from the courts.

FORCED ARBITRATION 4
IS COSTLY, UNFAIR, & CONCEALS
QUALITY OF CARE VIOLATIONS

Most HMOs and managed care plans require consumers to
give up their right to go to court in cases of malpractice or
disputes over quality of care—as a condition of coverage.
Instead of having access to the public forum of a court,
patients are forced into a mandatory system of binding arbi-
tration which often protects negligent doctors and hospitals
and punishes patients.

A Arbitration protects the perpetrators of medical
negligence from public scrutiny.

> The threat of damages and publicity can keep profit-dri-
ven insurers honest because it hits them where they hurt
most: the bottom line. Arbitrations, unlike court proceedings,
are private and the decisions are never published, shielding
“repeated violations of quality standards from the public’s
view. (Michael A. Hiltzik and David R. Olmos, “Kaiser
Justice System’s Fairness Questioned,” L.A. Times, Aug. 30,
1995)

A Arbitration is frequently lengthy and sometimes deliber-
ately drawn out, a delaying tactic used by HMO attorneys.

> A study of Kaiser’s arbitration process, undertaken in
conjunction with the Engalla case, reyealed that claimants
waited an average of 674 days — nearly 2 years — from the
time a claim was filed to the time a neutral arbitrator was
appointed. Only 3% of claimants had a neutral arbitrator
appointed within 3 months. (Declaration of Michael J.
Sullivan in Nida Engalla et. al. v. The Permanente Medical
Group, Inc., California Superior Court in and for Alameda
County, Apr. 12, 1993)

A Arbitration is usually more costly than a trial and con- —
sumers often cannot recover their legal costs, while the
awards made by arbitrators are generally 20-50% lower than
awards made by jurors.

> Linda Ross, whose mother died of a misdiagnosed and
untreated pulmonary embolism in a Kaiser hospital in
Riverside, spent nearly $22,000 in legal fees over the course
of three years. When the case was finally heard, even though

' the arbitrators unanimously agreed on Kaiser’s liability, Ross
was awarded only $150,000, significantly less than what a
jury would have awarded, and not enough to deter Kaiser’s
negligence in the future. (Linda Ross, Testimony before the
State Senate Judiciary Committee, Oct. 1995; for informa-
tion on lower arbitration awards, see Nancy Peverini, “ADR:
A Panacea for the Civil Justice System? Let’s Take a Closer
Look,” Consumer Attorney of California, 1996)

> “T tell plaintiffs it’s very difficult to win against Kaiser.
You've got to be prepared to spend $25,000 and upward for
experts. It’s intended as a stacked deck, and the unwary get

7 caughtin it,” says retired Los Angeles County Superior Court
Judge Harry T. Shafer, a judge often selected as a plaintiff's
arbitrator in Kaiser cases. (Hiltzik, Olmos, L.A. Times, Aug.
30, 1995)

A Arbitrators have a strong financial self-interest in secur-
ing favorable settlements for health plans.

> Arbitrators who rule against health plans and award sub-
stantial damages to the patient rarely find themselves asked
to arbitrate future disputes. There is a subtle-but real eco-
nomic coercion of neutral arbitrators by the HMOs to decide
issues in their favor. (Ken Sigelman, Testimony before the
State Senate Judiciary Committee, Oct. 1995)
