would ever tolerate taking Social Security away from retired people. Let me make that
point.

But the sooner we start the transition, the better we'll be. The most unselfish people in
this country are the retired people. They are our heroes. They survived the Depression.
They fought in World War I, World War II and Korea, and on and on and on and they are
our heroes. We rejoice they’re living longer. I hope they live forever.

But, if you really care about other people, then you put together plans that will work for
those people, right? And you don’t sit there with tears in your eyes and say, I’1l protect
Social Security as you know it. You cdn’t sit through your term, because that won’t work
over the long term. Why didn’t they face this issue? They think it will cost them votes.
I'd rather lose the election than lie about Social Security.

Somebody was giving one of the candidates a hard time about he never kept his promises.
and his right-hand man came on television and says he keeps the promises he intends to
keep. I pledge to you, any promise we make is a promise we will fight, bleed and do
whatever else it takes to keep it to the American people.

>

Now, down to more things. There’s a new book out on Social Security written by Pete
Peterson. I urge you to read it to get the facts. It’s called Will We Grow Up or Grow
Older? Get those facts. The book will be out in three or four weeks. It’s terrific. I’ve had
a chance to read it. The details are there.

Now, all the political experts across the country watching this program will be shocked
and are shocked already that I’m talking about real problems and the fact that we have to
face them and solve them in an acceptance speech. This is supposed to be Morning in
America. You’re supposed to leave feeling giddy and good because I give you good news
all night. We’re about getting the facts, taking action, producing results.

I want you all to know the only reason I do this and the only reason I asked my family to
go through all this unpleasantness — Unfortunately that goes with politics — is that I am
absolutely devoted to solving these problems. We’ve got a new book out, called The
Dollar Crisis. Senator Paul Simon and I wrote it. It’s got a lot of detail about these issues
we’ ve been talking about. I hope you’ll read it. Get the facts.

We must have a new tax system. We know that. The first step in solving any problem is
to define the problem.

Watch my lips, Washington, if you want to solve a problem, carefully, thoughtfully and
rationally, define it. One of the things to do is look at history. You aren’t going to believe
this one. Before our nation was formed, the total cost to run our government was 67 cents
per person a year. Then, after our nation was formed, it went up to a dollar a year. Then
120 years later, in 1910, it was up to $6.75 per person a year. Now, we’re getting to be a
pretty big nation.
