a President Clinton and the Democratic Party....

A Common Sense Strategy
To Fight Gangs, Crime And Drugs
Gangs and youth violence are a serious problem. The Democratic Party supports President
Clinton's plan to use racketeering laws against gangs. We will keep fighting the extremists in the

GOP who refuse to give our police and our communities the tools and the resources they need to
take back our neighborhoods, streets, and schools.

The Clinton Anti-Gang Plan will take common sense steps to: --

° Improve cooperation between state, local and federal law enforcement
° Increase community involvement in anti-gang efforts
° Support early intervention efforts to keep kids out of gangs.

President Clinton has also announced funding for the first step of a bold new effort to enlist high
technology in the fight against gang violence -- a computerized, National Gang Tracking
Effort.

The Clinton Anti-Gang Plan is built on a tough, no-nonsense legislative agenda.
The proposals sent to Congress include the following:

° Trying juvenile offenders as adults for violent and drug crimes.

° A tough new strategy to stop the spread of the deadly drug,
methamphetamine. -

. Reinstating the ban on guns in schools.

° A $75 million grant for juvenile drug and gun courts.

° Increasing the penalties for drug dealers who sell drugs to children or use
children to sell drugs.

° Restoring the ability of the courts to enhance the sentences of criminals
convicted of using or carrying a firearm in connection with a drug related or
violent crime.

The police can’t do it alone: We all need to be involved in making our neighborhoods, streets, and
schools safe once again, and the police simply cannot do it alone. That’s why President Clinton has
called on one million new citizen volunteers to join with the 100,000 new police we’re putting on the

street.
“Our next step in the fight against crime is to take on gangs
the way we once took on the mob.”
President Clinton, State of the Union Address, January 23, 1996
Issue Paper No. 6 June 1996

DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE

430 South Capitol Strcct, S.E. ¢ Washington, D.C. 20003 ° 202.863.8000 ° http://www.democrats.org
