e Clinton Record

CONCERNS OF RETIREES

Medicare & Medicaid
@ The President vetoed the budget bill (H.R. 2491) —
supported by Speaker Gingrich and Senator Dole — that
would have cut Medicare by $1,700 per beneficiary by
the year 2002. The same bill would have cut Medicaid
reimbursements, forcing up to 700 urban and rural ‘hospi-
tals to close.

(Congressional Quarterly, 1/20/96)

& The Clinton administration has improved Medicare
coverage by eliminating the out-of-pocket costs for
mammograms. Under Clinton, the National Institutes for
Health (NIH) funding for breast cancer research has
increased by 65%.

(National Breast Cancer Coalition, 1995)

Insurance Reform

@ President Clinton has announced his support for legisla-
tion (S.1028) to prevent insurance companies from using
“pre-existing conditions” to deny people coverage. This
would allow working people to move from one job to
another without the fear of rising premiums or denial of
coverage.
(Weekly Radio Address, 4/27/96)

@ Since affordability remains a major obstacle to insuring
the uninsured, President Clinton has a proposal to address
this issue. The Clinton proposal would limit the ability of
insurers to vary premiums in ways that penalize small
businesses. In addition, insurers could no longer use
factors such as ‘claims experience’ or health status to
determine premiums— a practice known as “cherry-
picking”: attempts by insurers to weed out seniors, the
acutely ill and other potential high-cost participants.

(White House statement on State of the Union address, 1/23/96)

Retirement Savings

@ President Clinton has opposed attempts by Congress to
allow corporations to dip into the pension funds set aside
for their employees’ retirement. Under the Clinton admin-
istration, the Department of Labor 401-k enforcement

This information is provided for members
of the American Federation of Teachers

program has helped to lower the underfunding of pen-
sions — ensuring that employees’ savings are actually
contributed to their retirement plans and invested.

(White House statement on State of the Union address, 1/23/96)

@ President Clinton’s new budget proposes the NEST
plan through which businesses with 100 or fewer em-
ployees can establish retirement plans by simply filling
out and returning to the IRS a one-page form.

(White House statement on State of the Union address, 1/23/96)

Social Security
@ President Clinton signed legislation to more than
double the earnings limit for Social Security — from
$11,520 to $30,000 in the year 2002. “Raising the
earnings test will increase the standard of living of
the elderly and help the nation’s economy,” said the
President.

(Associated Press, 3/29/96)

Family & Medical Leave

® Inone of his first official acts, the President signed a
bill into law that allows working Americans to take up to
12 weeks of unpaid leave to care for a newborn , adopted
child or a family member who is ill.

é (Family & Medical Leave Act, signed by the President on 2/5/93)

OUR FUTURE
OUR DECISION

“tt

-_<
