However, if Proposition 217 were approved, each local agency (except
redevelopment agencies and school districts) would be guaranteed its share of
property tax as received in 1995-96. Therefore, new property tax revenue could be
taken away from the fast growing city and given to other local agencies to keep
those agencies at their 1995-96 share of the countywide total.

See Attachment A for a hypothetical illustration of this problem in action.

¢ New incorporations of cities would not be allowed any property tax. Similar to
the situation outlined above, if a community incorporated as a new city, that city
would not be allowed to receive any property tax revenue, because any allocation of
property tax to the new city would reduce other jurisdictions’ percentage share of
that county's countywide property tax revenue.

This becomes particularly alarming if a community wishes to detach from an existing
city and form a new city, because residents of the new city would likely be required
to continue paying all their property tax to their former city, since it would be
protected from losing any property tax.

For example, if San Fernando Valley were to detach from the City of Los Angeles
and form a new city, those residents and businesses would continue paying
property tax to the City of Los Angeles, and their new city would not be entitled to
any of their property taxes.

¢ Annexations of new territory by existing cities would not provide any
additional property tax revenue. Also similar to the cases above, if a city
annexed territory that had previously been unincorporated, the city would not be
able to receive property tax from that annexation, because doing so would reduce
the county’s share of property tax collections.

¢ Local agencies would be prevented from lowering their property tax rates.
Shortly after passage of Proposition 13, the Legislature provided a mechanism for
local agencies to lower their property tax rates below the one percent cap, if desired
(Revenue and Taxation Code Section 96.8). This procedure requires the county
auditor to reduce that agency’s allocation of property tax and recompute the tax rate
accordingly. Since Proposition 217 would prohibit an auditor from “reducing the
proportionate share of total property tax” allocated to an agency, this kind of tax
reduction would be prevented.

¢ Special districts would also be affected. Any district that receives property tax
revenues would be harmed if property within the district appreciates faster than
other parts of the county or if new residential and commercial development is
approved within the district boundaries. These districts provide services integral to a
community's quality of life, including water, sanitation, libraries, recreation and
parks.

September 4, 1996 Page 2
