The proponents of Proposition 194 say that prisoners don’t
need unemployment compensation because the savings withheld from
their pay will support them until they find a job. In fact, this
would give the average prisoner - assuming that he/she could budget
their savings over six months, the period of time they are eligible
for unemployment compensation - $86 per week to live on. With the
unemployment benefit however, that figure would increase to a
realistic support amount of $168 per week.

Remember that it is very difficult for felons to find jobs.
Many are basically unskilled, and in a slow labor market they are
the last to be-hired. It is imperative therefore, that they have
financial resources to fall back on while they seek employment.
Without these resources they will re-offend, and at a cost to the
taxpayers. A study done at U.C. Santa Barbara in 1981 bears this
out. It compared released felons who received unemployment
compensation to those who didn’t, and found that there was less
recidivism among the prisoners who got the benefit.

It is important to note that, according to the Department of
Corrections, to date only 113 Joint Venture program employees have
left prison, and of those only 40 worked for the required three
calendar quarters to qualify them to file for the benefit.
Employers have thus paid a negligible amount of unemployment
insurance.

Please vote No on Proposition 194.° Joint Venture program
workers have labored honestly while-in-prison. They have paid
state and federal taxes just like any other employee in California.
In addition, money for room and board has been withheld from their
wages, aS well as money to pay restitution to victims of crime, and
money to support their families. These inmates have served their
sentence, worked in a legitimate job, and paid their debt to
society. They should not be denied an unemployment benefit that
all other workers in California receive and that they have honestly
earned, solely because of their status as ex-prisoners.

Vote NO on Proposition 194
