California

Democratic

GRASSROOT DEMOCRAT

"The Council of Democratic Clubs"

SPECIAL ELECTION EDITION

Ve 8124 W. 3rd #207 ve LA, CA90048 vx 800/446-9709 vx 213/653-1091 xx FAX 415/333-1994 vx Fall, 1996 vx

DEMOCRATIC CLUBS
Provide Winning Edge in
CAMPAIGN '96

At the September 28th CDC
Board meeting in Fresno, Democratic
club leaders shared stories of the
efforts on the part of clubs and club
members to assure a victory in
November. In every part of the
State, Democratic clubs were actively
involved in the campaign. Many
clubs provided the leadership to open
the local headquarters and to pay the
bills, while other clubs were
members of local groups behind
"united" headquarters. In the areas
where the other Party has the
majority of voters, it was often the
Democratic club alone who was
carrying the Party's banner.

"We can all be proud of the
grassroots effort in this campaign",
says CDC president George i
Miliburn, “ not oniy have we worked
to register new Democrats, we are
the people power behind the
campaigns." Club leaders also noted
that beyond the many club
volunteers, local club members
formed the base of financial donors
for many races." CDC Southern
Executive Vice President Quincy
Beaver noted that "CDC clubs and
grassroot community leaders are the
major force in working to defeat
Prop. 209, the anti-affirmative action
| campaign. When there is work to be

CDC State State
Measure

204
205

done on important issues, CDC is in
the forefront." CDC clubs have been
working to educate the voting public
on the need to defeat Prop 209 for
over a year, having set this as a top
priority at the 1995 convention.

In the final weeks of the
campaign, the CDC Board of
volunteer grassroot leaders from
across the State are asking all club
members to become actively
involved to assure the re-election of
President Clinton , the election of
Democrats to the State Legislature
and to Congress and to seek support
for CDC positions on the ballot
measures. w

CDC's POSITIONS on
BALLOT MEASURES

Following many club
debates, area CDC board discussions,
CDC convention workshops on the
issues, State Party positions and input
from individuals and campaigns, the
CDC Board recommends the
following positions on the ballot
measures. Clip and take these
positions with you to the polls or as
you complete your vote by mail
ballot. Share these positions with
your members. CDC recognizes that
Democrats may have different points
of view on key issues. It is after
careful consideration and lengthy
debate that we take the following
positions. : w

Measures Appearing on Ballot
General Election - November 5, 1996

Safe, Clean, Reliable Water Supply Act
Youthful and adult offender Local Facilities Bond Act of 1996

Veterans’ Bond Act of 199¢

Attorneys Fees. Right to Negotiate. Frivolous Lawsuits. Initiative Statute.

CDC NEWS UPDATE

> The projected date for the
1997 CDC Convention is May 16-
17-18. The convention will be held
in Southern Califoria and will
feature elections for CDC officers.
The theme is "Action & Outreach:
Progressive Politics Across the
Generations". i

> CDC President George
Millburn outlined the formal
relationship being developed with the
Young Democrats. The goal is to
define areas where we can share
ideas and resources while
maintaining our unique
organizational identities and
autonomy. The proposals were
overwhelmingly supported by the
CDC board. During the formal
discussions between organizational
leaders, clubs are asked to build
positive local relationships with
Young Democratic groups in your
area.

> CDC approves new ad hoc
Committee on Disability. Via a
motion from the United Democrat
Clubs and the CDC Southern Board,
the State Board approved a new ad
hoc committee. This committee will
advance the work of the CDC
Disabilities caucus by formalizing the
relationship within the organization.
The caucus will continue to provide

W/R = NO RECOMMENDATION

Campaign Contributions and Spending Limits. Disclosures. Initiative Statute.

"So-called Civil Rights Initiative supported by Pete Wilson". Initiative Constitutional Amendment
Minimum Wage Increase. Initiative Statute.

Attorney-Client Fee Arrangements. Securities Fraud. Initiative Statute.
Spending Limits and Campaign Contributions. Lobbyist Restrictions. Initiative Statute.
Limitation on Recovery to Felons, Uninsured Motorists, Drunk Drivers. Initiative Statute.
Health Care Businesses. Regulation. Consumer Protection. Initiative Statute.

Medical Use of Marijuana. Initiative Statute.

Health Care. Regulation. Consumer Protection. Initiative Statute.
Top Income Brackets. Continuation. Revenues to Local Agencies. Initiative Statute.

Yoter Approval for Local Taxes. Limitations of Fees, Assessments, and Charges. Initiative Constitutional Amendment.

