kkk
DOLE KEMP

EDUCATION

Bob Dole:

¢ Supports parents and their right to choose which schools their children can attend

¢ Supports Opportunity Scholarships for poor and middle-class children

* Supports competition in our schools |

¢ Believes decision-making authority should be delegated back to state and local school
boards and away from the federal bureaucracy of Washington

¢ Believes parental involvement is the key to educating a child, and not the government

¢ Believes English should be the official language taught in our schools

¢ Will fight to keep our schools safe and to stop the skyrocketing drug use inflicting our
students

Bill Clinton:

¢ Believes more federal government control and intrusion is the solution to our growing
education problems-- the centerpiece of his education agenda is Goals 2000, a thinly
veiled federal power grab of state education authority, which vests a national school
board with approval power over state and local school reform

* Opposes school choice and vouchers, even though the Clintons and Gores send their own
children to private schools

* Believes the federal bureaucracy should have authority as to all education decisions

* Believes that English in our schools should only be optional

* Continues to cave-in to the demands of the teachers unions in regard to every major
education decision

Under the Congressional Republican plan, spending for education INCREASES
by nearly $3 billion next year.

Meanwhile. under Bill Clinton. student drug use has skyrocketed, school violence has worsened. the
Clinton Administration has tried to enact their own set of U.S. history politically-correct
“standards” (which were vetoed 99-1 by the U.S. Senate), and student
test and reading scores continue to decline.

Clinton continues to advocate the status-quo in regard to our schools. The new Clinton program unveiled
at the Democratic National convention-- “America Reads” --would cost taxpayers an additional $2.75
billion and would also create over 30,000 new government bureaucrats.

We don’t need another government program to teach our children to read. We need to give parents,
teachers and local school administrators more choices and more

control over our children’s education.

Can we truly afford another four years of Clinton?

Authorized and paid for by Dole/Kemp '96, Robert E. Lighthizer, Treasurer
810 First Street, Northeast * Suite 300 * Washington. DC 20002 ¢ (202) 414-6400

