For Immedate Release Contact: Harvey Rosenfield or Jamie Court 310-392-0522
September 17, 1996 Chuck Idelson 415-437-3325

Nurses and Consumers Launch "HMO Casualty of the Day” Campaign
To Expose Medical Tragedies By Care-Cutting Managed Care Insurers

-- Infant Dies After HMO Does Not Approve Emergency Care --

Consumer advocates and nurses backing Proposition 216, the Patient
Protection Act, today launched an "HMO Casualty of the Day Campaign" to
teveal to the public the life-shattering stories of patients arbitrarily denied
needed treatment by care-cutting HMOs, managed care insurers, and
hospitals/nursing home chains.

Every day until the November Sth election, when Californians will vote on
the new patient safeguards against managed care abuses established by
Proposition 216, the face and story of another care-cutting casualty will be
faxed to media, opinion leaders, and to nurse leaders throughout the state
who will distribute and post the stories daily in lunch rooms, community
meetings and other public places.

The first "HMO Casualty of the Day" report chronicles the story of a

19 month year old girl, Mychelle Williams, who was in respiratory distress
and had a 105.6 degree fever but was denied trauma care when paramedics
transported her to a hospital unaffiliated with her HMO. Mychelle died after
four hours of HMO delays during which time her HMO refused to order an
ambulance to transfer her to the HMO's hospital until it was too late.

"No one should have to experience what my family did,” said Dawnelle Keys,
Mycelle Williams's mother, who will be asking hundreds of her neighbors to
pledge their votes for Proposition 216. "Proposition 216 is strong medicine for
an out of control HMO system."

"The HMOs have used their millions to produce deceptive television ads that
ignore the pain and suffering of patients arbitrarily denied care by HMOs and
other giant health care corporations,” said Kit Costello, President of the
California Nurses Association, co-sponsor of Proposition 216. "Patients are
fighting back by telling the true tales of abuse, mistreatment, and negligence.
The HMOs may have the money, but Proposition 216's supporters have the
truth.”

"The HMO executives financing the anti-Proposition 216 effort have refused
to debate us and will not show their faces, but the scars of patients injured by
the reckless profiteering of these cloaked Goliaths will be exposed through
this campaign,” said consumer advocate Harvey Rosenfield, co-author of
Proposition 216. "HMO care-cutting is not the two punch line joke the
