2. Patient Protection Act: Prop 216 Bans Bonuses for Denials of Care

ARTICLE 4

t

A Prohibits bonuses, incentives or other direct or indirect compensation to physicians or other licensed caregivers
which create an-incentive for denial or delay of. safe and appropriate care.

BONUSES GIVEN FOR LIMITING
OR DENYING MEDICAL CARE

Managed care plans, which provide health coverage for nearly

3/4 of insured Californians, have.an incentive to maximize
their profits by limiting care. Managed care strategies, in which
doctors and nurses are offered financial incentives to limit
treatment, referrals, and hospitalization, create a conflict of
interest for health care providers who have a responsibility to
advocate for their patients’ best interests. Often doctors and
nurses are forced to choose between a financial bonus and
the best medical treatment option for a patient.

A HMOs offer financial incentives to salaried employees—
doctors, nursing managers, pharmacists—to deny or ration
treatment in order to meet bureaucrats’ cost-cutting goals.

> According to the Kaiser Permanente business plan for
1995-1997, released by the Los Angeles-based Consumers for
Quality Care, physicians receive monetary bonuses for
reducing hospital admissions by 30%, to 164 days per 1,000
members, as well as meeting other cost-cutting targets set by
the HMO. (Dawn Yoshitake, “Kaiser Plan Called Bad
Medicine,” Daily News, Sept. 22, 1995)

> Kaiser offered nurses financial incentives to help move
patients out of hospitals early. This “gain-sharing program,”
patterned after textile worker bonuses, would make up a

significant portion of a nurse’s pay contingent on meeting the

HMO?’s rationing targets. (David R. Olmos, “Kaiser Seeking
to Pay Bonuses to Nurses Who Help Cut Costs,” L.A. Times,
Dec. 22, 1995),

> On the “Donahue” show, David Himmelstein, a
Massachusetts physician, criticized U.S. Healthcare, his
employer, and other HMOs for rewarding doctors who deny
needed care and forcing them to sign contracts pledging not

’

to disparage the HMO. When he was dropped three days
later by U.S. Healthcare, he wasn't surprised. “Every doctor
who works with an HMO knows you are in trouble if you
criticize,” said Himmelstein. (David R. Olmos and Shari
Roan, "HMO ‘Gag Clauses’ on Doctors Spur Protest,” L.A.
Times, Apr. 14, 1996)

A HMOs link bonuses to reducing pharmacy costs by
withholding expensive drugs.

> Barbara Jean Roberts died of a pulmonary embolism in a
Kaiser hospital in Riverside after an emergency room physician
declined to prescribe an expensive blood thinning drug on
hand that night which could have saved her, according to her
daughter, Linda Ross. Ross, who won an arbitration award
against Kaiser, subsequently discovered that Kaiser’s doctors
received monetary bonuses for rationing high cost drugs.
(Testimony Before State Senate Judiciary Committee, Oct.
1995; Michael A. Hiltzik and David R. Olmos, “Kaiser Justice
System’s Fairness Is Questioned,” L.A. Times, Aug. 30, 1995)

.& Bonuses pressure doctors to discharge patients as quickly
as possible.

> A recent Dartmouth study found that infants discharged
less than 48 hours after birth are twice as likely to require
readmission in the future. Nevertheless, Kaiser-Permanente,
the largest HMO in California, pressured doctors and gave
them monetary bonuses to release new mothers and their
infants only eight hours after giving birth. A memo explaining
the new hospital policy entitled “Positive Thoughts Regarding
The Eight Hour Discharge,” offered the following justification,
among others: “Hospital food is not tasty.” (Debra J. Saunders, °
“Their Basic Implant, My Cheap Hip,” San Francisco
Chronicle, Nov. 27, 1995; Consumers for Quality Care, Los
Angeles, Internal Kaiser Memo; Harpers Magazine, Feb. 1992)

