7. Doesn't the California Civil Rights Initiative allow discrimination against women?

No. The California Civil Rights Initiative states "The state shall not discriminate against, or grant
preferential treatment to, any individual or group on the basis of race, sex...". The California Civil Rights
Initiative strengthens California's anti-discrimination laws.

8. The opposition says that clause (c) of the initiative allows for discrimination against
women. Isn't that true?

No. Clause (c) states that "Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as prohibiting bona fide
qualifications based on sex which are reasonably necessary to the normal operation of public
employment, public education, or public contracting." This language was taken from the U.S. Civil
Rights Act which, like the California Civil Rights Initiative, sets up a broad prohibition on sex
discrimination, followed by an exception to this broad prohibition. This narrow exception is needed, for
example, in order to prevent the state from having male prison guards from conducting body searches on
female prisoners. Again, the California Civil Rights Initiative strengthens, not weakens, California's
anti-discrimination laws. ‘

9. Doesn't the California Civil Rights Initiative prevent the public school
system, including the universities, from conducting outreach programs?

Not at all. Outreach, in the original, classical sense of affirmative action, never involved preferential
treatment on the basis of race, sex or ethnicity. Outreach programs which neither discriminate nor grant
preferential treatment on the basis of these criteria can continue under the California Civil Rights
Initiative.

10. Isn't it true that eliminating the preferences and set-asides in current affirmative action
programs will reduce opportunities for women and minorities?

No. First, "affirmative action" as it was previously known did not include preferences or quotas. It
merely required an employer to ensure equal opportunity. Those programs have grown to include the
objectionable preferences and preferential treatment. Second, people who claim that women and
minorities only can get ahead with "affirmative action" programs containing preferences are really
saying that women and minorities need more than equal opportunity to compete. The California Civil
Rights Initiative supporters believe that women and minorities do not need preferential treatment in order
to succeed. It is time to judge people based on their abilities and accomplishments, not simply the color
of their skin or their sex.

11. Won't the California Civil Rights Initiative discourage private employers from
engaging in voluntary affirmative action programs?

When the California Civil Rights Initiative is passed by the voters, it will send a strong message that the
voters reject all discrimination and all preferences on the basis of race, sex, or ethnicity in public
employment, public education, and public contracting. This may affect business decisions in the private
sector. However, the California Civil Rights Initiative covers only the public sector, and any such
decisions in the private sector will be purely voluntary.

May 24, 1996
