et htm

CHG Reel

NX W
California Civil Rights Initiative

AUTHORS AND PRINCIPALS
Glynn Custred ¢ Thomas Wood

THE CALIFORNIA CIVIL RIGHTS INITIATIVE

A proposed statewide constitutional amendment by initiative

1 (a) The state shall not discriminate against. or grant preferential treatment to, any individual or

3 group on the basis of race, sex, color, ethnicity, or national origin in the operation of public
3 employment, public education, or public contracting.
4 (b) This section shall apply only to action taken after:the section's effective date.
5) (c) Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as prohibiting bona fide qualifications based on
6 sex which are reasonably necessary to the normal operation of public employment, public
7 education, or public contracting.
8 (d) Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as invalidating any court order or consent
9 decree which is in force as of the effective date of this section.
10 (e) Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as prohibiting action which must be taken to 4 BRAR
, peal Phar ver RE ; Mang anal Y (MGij-
11 establish or maintain eligibility for any federal program, where ineligibility would result in a Sovern
ment Information”
12 loss of federal funds to the state.
‘UG 20 1998
13 (f) For the purposes of this section, “state” shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the
14 State itself, any city, county, city and county, public university system, including the University '*! ¥ Ehois t OFC ALIFORNIA’
15 of California, community college district, school district, special district, or any other political LOSA ANGELES
16 subdivision or governmental instrumentality of or within the state.
17 (g) The remedies available for violations of this section shall be the same, regardless of the
18 injured party’s race, sex, color, ethnicity, or national origin, as are otherwise available for
19 violations of then-existing California antidiscrimination law.
20 (h) This section shall be self-executing. If any part or parts of this section are found to be in
21 conflict with federal law or the United State Constitution, the section shall be implemented to
22 the maximum extent that federal law and the United States Constitution permit. Any provision
23 held invalid shall be severable from the remaining portions of this section.

“The state shall not discriminate against, or grant preferential treatment to, any individual or group on the
basis of race, sex, color, ethnicity, or national origin in the operation of public employment, public
education or public contracting.” -- California Civil Rights Initiative (CCRI)

California Civil Rights Initiative
A Project of Californians against Discrimination and Preferences I.D. #93 1-039
P.O. Box 67278, Los Angeles CA 90067 Tel: 310-286-CCRI Fax: 310-286-7041
World Wide Web: http://www.cal-net.com/ccri
E-Mail Address: ccri@earthlink.net Nera naye
