The Honorable Tom Hayden
April 5, 1995

Page 8

Py.

25-50 percent of the lion population would be necessary to sufficiently reduce
competition for food among lions in order to reduce the potential for threats to
public safety. Once again, it could not be offered as a guarantee against human
attacks but may serve to lower the probability of such attacks.

Question: Evidence was presented that a paw print or other signs of a mountain
lion presence on school grounds are insufficient to be considered an imminent
threat. Does the Department feel that such evidence should be considered an
imminent threat for purposes of justifying the killing of the suspect lion?

Response: Presence of a mountain lion does not necessarily constitute a threat
to public safety. When a mountain lion or mountain lion tracks are observed in
the vicinity of a school or any urban area, yet no actual demonstrated threat to
human safety occurs, appropriate action may include informing t the public and
residents of the area of the verified presence of a mountain lion. In addition, the
Department attempts to advise the public and provide reasonable precautions to
prevent or reduce the potential of threat. In 1992, the Department produced a
mountain lion information brochure which contains specific recommendations for
actions to be taken if a mountain lion is encountered.

In the specific case cited by officials from the Round Valley Elementary School,
the Department responded immediately to reports of a mountain lion presence in
the vicinity. School officials were provided with information, including
recommendations for minimizing potential threats. In light of the fact that
mountain lions are more active late evening and through the night, it is likely that
the subject lion was in the area of the. school after school hours. The Department
carefully monitored the situation, and’ the level of concern was greatly reduced
when the Department removed two mountain lions in the vicinity on May 19,
1994, the day on which Ms. Marie Taylor of the Round — School sent her
letter to the Department.

The statement of the Department's employee responding to the incident needs to
be considered in context following the removal of two lions from the vicinity of
the Round Valley School. He merely pointed out that, under existing law and the
Department's guidelines, the mere presence of a mountain lion track near a school
or other urban area by itself does not warrant removal of a lion. The Department
takes all potential threats to public safety very seriously, and responds immediately
with the appropriate action, including removal of lions on a case-by-case basis. As

previously indicated, 10 mountain lions were killed as threats to public safety in
1994.

