First Argument

The equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment to the
U.S. Constitution prohibits the state from engaging in
intentional racial or sexual discrimination, unless the
state action is narrowly tailored to serve a compelling
state interest. After discussing the leading cases in this
area [Korematsu v. United States, 323 U.S. 214 (1944);
Reitman v. Mulkey, 387 U.S. 369 (1967); Washington v.
Davis, 426 U.S. 229 (1976); and Personnel Administrator
of Massachusetts v. Feeney, 442 U.S. 256 (1979),
Professors Landsberg and Varat concluded the initiative
would be likely to survive an argument that it
intentionally discriminates. Both professors tempered
their conclusions with a proviso that arguments the
initiative intentionally discriminates could prevail if
evidence surfaced during the election campaign of
discriminatory intent through, for instance, statements by
its drafters, sponsors or campaign supporters.

Second Argument

A second argument was analyzed in detail by Professor
Varat in reviewing a March 23, 1995, opinion by the
legislative counsel regarding the constitutionality of the
ban on preferences in Section 31 (a). In the opinion,
prepared for state Senator Richard G. Polanco, the
legislative counsel said “any construction of Section 31
that prohibits constitutionally valid affirmative action
programs that provide a preference based on race would
violate the equal protection clause.” The legislative
counsel opinion was based on Reitman v. Mulkey, cited
above.

The Reitman case involved a voter-approved initiative
that in 1964 attempted to amend the California
Constitution to prohibit the state or its subdivisions from
interfering with a right of Californians to sell or rent to
whomever they wished. The U.S. Supreme Court in a 5 to
4 decision held the initiative was designed to encourage
private racial discrimination in housing, and therefore
violated the equal protection clause of the 14th
Amendment because it would significantly involve the
state in private racial discrimination.
