xk

DOLE KEMP

Bob Dole Issue Paper - Senior Citizens
Bob Dole Will Protect, Improve and Strengthen Programs for Senior Citizens.
Bob Dole is committed to protecting, improving and strengthening programs that America’s
senior citizens depend on. Bob Dole believes that the United States has a legal and moral

responsibility to the generation of Americans who made this country strong.

“ah

That is why he will ensure that the government honors its commitments to Social Security and
Medicare beneficiaries -- now and in the future.

Bob Dole Has Fought to Protect Social Security For 30 Years.
During his Senate career, Dole always fought to protect our nation’s senior citizens.

* In 1983, Dole helped craft a plan that saved Social Security from insolvency.

* In 1993, he lead the effort to kill President Clinton’s $25 billion tax on Social Security
benefits.

° In 1966, Dole introduced legislation that would automatically increase Social Security
benefits whenever the cost of living rose 3 percent or more. Since that time, he has
fought to liberalize the Social Security earnings limitation.

° In 1995, Dole cosponsored a bill in the Senate that would raise the earnings limit on
Social Security recipients from $11,280 to $30,000 by 2002.

Bob Dole Is Committed to Saving Medicare From Bankruptcy.

Last spring, a study supported by three members of Bill Clinton’s own Cabinet showed that
Medicare will be bankrupt in five years. Bob Dole will act now to save Medicare for future
generations.

Bob Dole introduced legislation over 15 years ago to protect the elderly from Medicare and
Medicaid fraud and abuse. Bob Dole will continue to find ways to protect and improve
Medicare. As President, he will:

* Champion efforts to save the Medicare system from insolvency so that it will be available
for future generations.

¢ Support giving Medicare beneficiaries the right to choose the kind of coverage that best
fits their own priorities and needs. Bob Dole thinks that they should be given the same
kind of choices that federal government employees have had for years.

° Advocate innovative ideas like Medical Savings Accounts and managed care as well as
traditional fee-for -service plans.

¢ Recommend the establishment of a blue-ribbon bipartisan advisory commission -- similar
to the one he served on in 1983 that saved Social Security -- to solve the Medicare crisis.

Authorized and paid for by Dole/Kemp ’96, Robert E. Lighthizer, Treasurer
810 First Street, Northeast * Suite 300 * Washington, DC 20002 (202) 414-6400
