GUN CONTROL

THE NATURAL LAW PARTY holds that the
current debate over gun control overlooks the
root cause of this issue. Although the Natural
Law Party opposes recent attempts to undermine
current gun-control laws governing semi-auto-
matic assault weapons, we also hold that gun-
control legislation alone will never eliminate the
source of the problem.

The climate of fear and tension pervading
America’s cities and towns is largely responsible
for the proliferation of guns and their use in acts
of violent crime. The Natural Law Party is the
only political party to offer scientifically proven
programs to reduce built-up social stress and
thereby reduce crime and violence (see our
“Crime and Rehabilitation” section).

54

Within six months of the implementation of these
programs, the Natural Law Party anticipates a
dramatic reduction in crime rate as stress is neu-
tralized and the whole population spontaneously
becomes more in harmony with both natural law
and national law. In this improved atmosphere,
the perceived need for—and the actual use of—
weapons will naturally diminish.

At the same time, the Natural Law Party believes
that the widespread availability of guns is, in it-
self, a significant contributing factor to the rise
of violent crime. The Natural Law Party there-
fore upholds existing gun-control legislation and
believes that such legislation represents a suit-
able balance between public safety and the con-
stitutional right to bear arms.

CAPITAL PUNISHMENT

WITH THE CURRENT EPIDEMIC of crime
in America, capital punishment has gained broad
popular support as a hoped-for deterrent to the
most severe crimes. Unfortunately, experience
shows that capital punishment neither effectively
deters crime nor saves taxpayer money. Al-
though the Natural Law Party supports a strong
penal code, especially for specific, highly egre-
gious violent crimes, the current effort to extend
the death penalty to include a wide range of
crimes is a desperate public (and highly politi-
cal) reaction arising from deep frustration with
present, ineffective crime-fighting strategies.

55

The Natural Law Party supports highly effec-
tive, proven crime-prevention programs that
have been shown to lower crime significantly
(see our “Crime and Rehabilitation” section).
We believe that the national mood will shift away
from an outcry for the harshest possible punish-
ment and towards more compassionate solutions
once violent crime has been significantly reduced
through the Natural Law Party’s prevention-ori-
ented approach.
