EESS 208
ye DOLE

FOR PRESIDENT

FACT SHEET

Restoring :he Americas Dream: Bob Dole’s Pro-Growth Plan for
America’s Families

Amenca today is competing in the most dynamic world economy we have ever seen,
Scores of countries populated by hundreds of millions of people are discarding central planning
in favor of ‘ree exterpmse. New markets are opening to American goods and services.
Entrepreneurs are developing new technologies to create products we could have only dimly
imagined just a decade ago. America stands on the threshold of a breathtaking furure, with

greater opportunities for economic growth and prosperity than at any time during our nation’s
history.

Yet, rather. than seizing these opportunities, the Clinton Administration has caken a “grow
slow” approach to American economic policy. Clinton Administration officials have apparently
concluded that the current average annual growth rate of 2.4% represents the outer limit of
America’s economic potential. The American people have paid e high price for the Clinton
Administration's neglect: growth is anemic; incomes and wages are stagnant: and workers
understandably feel more and more anxious about the future.

In order to create rising incomes for all Americans, we must commit ourselves to a
far more ambitious endeavor. Growth must be the ceatral goal of U.S. economic policy.
Economic growth--and the rising living standards and prosperity it creates for all
Americans—sbould be the standard by which all economie policies are judged. America
can do better if we set ambitious, but reachable, growth gosis for our country and then
implement the policies necessary to achieve them.

Bob Dole believes the economy can grow at an anual rate of 3.5%. And he wiil
implement a olan to achieve this goal.

The Clinton Record

Bill Clinton likes to claim we have the strongest economy in a generation. But economic
growth has been anemic; and, if you accept the Clinton Administration's own projections. the
economy wil! struggle along at 2.3% growth into the next Century. (Sewer: Dr. 1. Sugile. White House Press
Briering, July 14. 90m, Wages and incomes for working Americans are stagnant. Families are being
squeezed dy rising taxes. Blisinesses are choking on government regulacon.

This is the fundamental reality of the Clinton economy—high taxes and stagnant
wages. This is the key to middle-viass anxiety. [tis why people feel they are working harder.
but calling further behind: why they believe the current generation won't be as successfui as the
last generation: why they believe their children will oe worse off: why they feel so anxious about
their economic fucure.

Authorized and paid for by Dole ror President, inc.. Robert Lighcuzer. Treasurer
S10 First Street. Northeast * Suite 300 ¢ Washington. O.C. TUS #1202) diana
