DEFENSE

WITH THE END OF THE COLD WAR ERA,
the U.S. has an unprecedented opportunity to
lead the world in creating a stable and perma-
nent peace, free from fear of aggression and war,
in which every nation enjoys invincibility and
friendship with every other nation.

THE PROBLEM

With the declining threat of superpower confron-
tation, everyone agrees that the U.S. defense
budget should be reduced. But there is no na-
tional consensus on the nature and magnitude
of these cuts. Lawrence Korb, former assistant
secretary of defense in the Reagan administra-
tion, commented in the November 1995 issue of
Foreign Affairs that the U.S. could safely scale
down defense expenditures by $40 billion a year.
However, rational consideration of U.S. defense
needs is consistently overshadowed by concerns
about loss of jobs and rising unemployment due
to military cutbacks.

Uncertainty and fear still dominate U.S. defense
thinking. History has shown that neither treaties
nor arms can ensure peace and security. Regional
and ethnic conflicts in the Middle East and East-
ern Europe have demonstrated that even small
nations can imperil world peace and stability.
They can hold other nations hostage through ter-
rorism, ecological warfare, and weapons of mass
destruction.

No viable defense against nuclear weapons ex-
ists. Recent nuclear tests in China and the re-
sumption of nuclear testing by France have
stirred fears in the international community of
runaway nuclear proliferation. At least 46
nuclear weapons are thought to be missing from
the former Soviet arsenal [1]. Arms experts fear
that rogue nations and terrorist groups might opt
for “back-pack” nuclear weapons loaded in ar-

48

tillery shells or even carried by foot soldiers.
Even after substantial reductions in our own ar-
senals, thousands of nuclear weapons remain.
The military faces huge environmental cleanup
costs for its unused arsenals and bases.

The U.S. remains one of the world’s biggest arms
suppliers. In the first year of President Clinton’s
administration, $22.3 billion in arms transfers
was approved, including $13.4 billion to non-
democratic countries. The U.S. continues its
sales of arms to the Middle East, belying the
government’s much publicized initiative after the
Gulf War to restrain the global spread of arms.
On the domestic front, Congress continues to
fund expensive “pork-barrel” defense contracts
that the Pentagon does not even want [2].

Finally, military personnel continue to face ma-
jor health concerns, including problems with
stress [3], alcohol [4], and a higher rate of ciga-
rette smoking than the civilian population. Post-
traumatic stress syndrome, a continuing prob-
lem for veterans, is virtually ignored due to lack
of solutions, and Gulf War syndrome has under-
scored the insidious influence of environmental
toxins on our primary-level military personnel [5].

THE SOLUTION

The changing global political landscape man-
dates a broad reassessment of the purpose, scope,
strategy, and financial requirements of U.S. de-
fense. The Natural Law Party believes that these
crucial issues must be decided on the basis of a
revised set of priorities reflecting America’s re-
alistic defense requirements—not on the basis
of short-term political considerations and “pork-
barrel” politics.

The Natural Law Party recognizes the need to
maintain the alertness of our nation’s armed

DEFENSE PLATFORM

forces. Consequently, the Natural Law Party
believes that the U.S. should not yet implement
a major reduction of defense expenditures, be-
cause the world is still dangerous and unstable.
However, we believe that a smaller, more flex-
ible force coupled with greater economic and
security cooperation will serve the nation’s se-
curity interests and provide the basis for a more
stable world. We therefore emphasize human
rather than material resources. We need research
and high technology rather than massive
amounts of conventional weaponry. Reductions
would be made in conjunction with the best ad-
vice from the military and Joint Chiefs of Staff,
to avoid decreasing the alertness and prepared-
ness of our armed forces.

For example, the Natural Law Party believes that
funding for costly, wasteful, and ineffective
weapons systems could be rapidly scaled down.
We would also make reasonable reductions in
the research and development, operations and
maintenance, and procurement budgets to elimi-
nate waste. As part of this down-scaling, we
would (1) accelerate the decrease of U.S. nuclear
arsenals, (2) immediately and permanently halt
all U.S. nuclear testing and nuclear weapons re-
search, and (3) reduce the U.S. presence in
NATO and the Pacific Rim, encouraging West-
ern Europe and Japan to contribute more toward
the defense of those regions. The role of America
should be to foster peace and prosperity in the
family of nations, rather than to act as the world’s
policeman.

The Natural Law Party believes, however, that
politicians who promise decreased defense
spending without any program or technology to
ensure world peace are not acting responsibly
in the best security interests of our nation. To
guarantee our security as we reduce military
expenditures, the Natural Law Party offers a
peace-promoting technology that will neutral-
ize international tensions and conflict and pro-
mote stability and harmony within the family of

49

nations. Through this peace-promoting technol-
ogy, which is based upon groups of experts col-
lectively practicing the Transcendental Medita-
tion and TM-Sidhi program, the Natural Law
Party can help to ensure a peaceful world and a
steadily growing “peace dividend” to support
domestic programs. Only through the addition
of this technology to generate an actual, physi-
cal influence of peace among the family of na-
tions can a political party responsibly cut de-
fense spending and divert the precious resources
of the nation towards more life-supporting and
humane programs at home and abroad [6].

In addition, the Natural Law Party supports the
immediate creation of a “prevention wing”
within the military—a group whose primary
purpose would be to prevent the outbreak of war
and to preserve and strengthen national and in-
ternational peace. By training even 1% of U.S.
military personnel in the proven programs ad-
vocated by the Natural Law Party to reduce stress
in individual and national life, America can cre-
ate a genuine peace-keeping force that can main-
tain a powerful, integrated, coherent national
consciousness and thereby prevent the emer-
gence of an enemy.

The Natural Law Party also supports new pri-
orities for the U.S. Department of Defense. Se-
lected military personnel and resources could
quickly adapt to roles such as drug interdiction
and border defense. Some of our defense say-
ings could immediately be reinvested in educa-
tion, public health, housing, the environment,
and other domestic needs. We believe that eco-
nomic growth, leading to new industries and
jobs, is the best way to help the defense industry
adjust to military downsizing. There is strong
Statistical evidence that more jobs are created
through domestic programs than through mili-
tary spending. In addition, we favor incentives
to stimulate investment of private-sector funds
and expertise to help industries diversify into
nondefense markets.

