The Voice of Victory ‘96

May 1996

CALIFORNIA CAMPAIGN
TEAM TAPPED

Thomas Umberg has been named State
Director for the Clinton/Gore ‘96 California re-
election campaign. Bill Carrick will serve as Senior
Advisor to the Clinton/Gore ‘96 campaign.

“We are proud to have Tom Umberg and
Bill Carrick join the re-election team,” Ann Lewis,
Clinton/Gore ‘96 Deputy Campaign Manager said of
the appointments, “They’re two of the ablest
strategists in California.”

Mr. Umberg has served as Assistant United
States Attorney in California’s Central District.

From 1990 to 1994, he represented Orange County in
the California State Assembly.

Mr. Carrick guided Senator Feinstein’s
successful 1992 Senate race, as well as her victory
over Michael Huffington in 1994. He helped
coordinate the Democratic Rapid Response Team at
the 1992 Republican Convention in Houston.

REPUBLICAN ATTACK ON
DEMOCRATIC
INCUMBENTS

This year California’s entire Congressional
delegation must stand for election. As usual the
Republican Party has targeted a few Democratic
incumbents. Based on early post-primary activity the
Republicans are primarily focused on defeating
Congressman Vic Fazio in the 3rd CD,

A Publication of The Coordinated Campaign of the California Democratic Party

vol. | issue |

Congresswoman Jane Harman in the 36th CD and
Congressman George Brown in the 42nd CD.

Vic’s opponent in November will be right-
winger Tim Lefever. Fazio defeated Lefever in
1994, but Lefever never stopped running and the
Republicans will provide additional funding in 1996
so the race will be a tight one. Democrats along the
Interstate 80 corridor in Solano and Yolo counties
need to get prepared for a tough battle. There is a 5%
Democratic voter registration edge in the district but
Dianne Feinstein took only 41% of the vote in the
district in 1994,

In the Los Angeles-based 36th CD Jane
Harman will also have to defend her seat against her
1994 opponent Susan Brooks. The 36th CD has
almost an equal number of Democrats and
Republicans, but Jane Harman has been a great
Congresswoman for the district. Susan Brooks
prevailed in a very contested Republican primary,
getting only 42% of the Republican vote.

Finally, once again the Republican’s are
coming after George Brown in the Inland Empire.
Over the years a variety of challengers have tried to
defeat Congressman Brown. The Dean of the
California delegation has bested them all. The
district has a 14% Democratic voter registration edge,
but less than 40% of the district voted for Dianne
Feinstein in her 1994 race against Huffington in
1994. George Brown has been working long and
hard to represent this district we must now work hard
to insure he is re-elected.

Vic Fazio, Jane Harman and George Brown
are just a few of the tough Congressional races
around the state. In future issues we will update you
on additional Congressional races as well as key
State Senate and Assembly races battles.

WANTED: COUNTY FAIRS

Let us help you ensure that the Clinton/Gore campaign takes part in your county fair. We can

help you obtain signs, banners, buttons, bumper stickers, lawn signs - the whole nine yards.
There is a special video tape available if you are planning a rally and want something to fire up
the troops. For information and a campaign starter kit call Claude Taylor at (213) 653-1996,

