Ill. Healthcare for Patients, Not for Profit

Prop. 214 (HMO Patients Rights Act) Vote YES
Prop. 215 (Medical Use of Marijuana) Vote YES
Prop. 216 (Patient Protection Act) Vote YES

Props. 214 and 216 protect patients and doctors from greedy HMO moguls and insurance
companies. Prop. 214, sponsored by Service Employees International Union (SEIU), also
protects healthcare workers from being fired without cause. Prop. 216, sponsored by California
Nurses Association and Ralph Nader, levies new taxes on HMOs for excessive management
salaries, and acquisitions, restructurings and bed reductions for profit. We advocate free
nationalized healthcare, but in the meantime, we join labor unions, community and consumer
groups in urging a YES vote on both Props. 214 and 216.

Prop. 215 permits doctors to prescribe marijuana as medical treatment. Vote YES to give
patients and their caregivers the right to relieve pain and suffering without being criminalized.
The next step should be to legalize drugs under community control so that sick people can get
medicine, and drug runners and their contra clients would be out of business.

IV. Taxation Measures: The Good and the Really Bad
Prop. 217 (Repeals Tax Cuts for the Rich) Vote YES
Prop. 218 (Bans Non-Property Owners from Voting) Vote NO

Prop. 217, sponsored by SEIU Local 660, revives the 10% and 11% tax rates on people
with incomes over $115,000 and $230,000, respectively, and restores that badly needed $800
million in tax revenues dropped earlier this year. Prop. 217 is widely supported by labor, PTAs,
teachers, senior and public employees and administrators. It is opposed by--you guessed it--
business associations. :

Prop. 218 is the opposite of Prop. 217. While 217 tries to democratize the taxation
process, Prop. 218 would allow rich people more votes than the rest of us. If this bill passes,
people who don't own real estate would be banned from voting on property-related taxes. And to
add insult to injury, our already cash starved public schools would have to pay property taxes.
We join unions, school acministrators, teachers, and seniors is saying NO to Prop. 218. And we
can’t help reminding Prop. 218’s supporters that taxation without representation is what sparked
the first American Revolution.

V. Phony Campaign Finance Reform
Prop. 208 (Campaign Contributions) Vote NO
Prop. 212 (Campaign Contributions) Vote NO

Both these propositions claim to stop big business from buying elections. But instead they
would limit donations from labor unions and progressive big donors, while keeping loopholes for
corporations. What’s needed for campaign reform is public financing, mandatory spending limits
for candidates, and adabor party-that-woutd-deserve the millions of dollars that labor unions now
