Why This Initiative? Why Now?

* Patients do not have legal access to marijuana -- Many people have heard
that the federal government provides marijuana to some sick people who need
it. Sadly, that federal program only serves eight people today, and no new
applications are being accepted. To get marijuana, patients have no option but to
break the law.

* Breaking the logjam in-Sacramento -- Two years in a row, bipartisan votes
in both houses of the California legislature passed bills to permit patients to use
marijuana as medicine. But those bills were vetoed by the governor in 1994 and
1995. Proposition 215 is based on those bills, but it cannot be thwarted by
politicians.

* A focused, partial solution -- Unlike some initiatives, which demand too
much right away, Proposition 215 is tightly focused -- on patients. The initiative
does not create any new bureaucracies, does not overreach by trying to solve the
problem of supply for the drug, and is estimated by the State Legislative
Analyst to have no significant financial impact on the state or communities.

What About Other States?

In the past decade, the legislatures of more than 30 states have endorsed
the medical use of marijuana. Some states have gone so far as to specifically
protect patients. :

For instance, patients in Florida and Ohio already enjoy protections like
those that would be provided by the Medical Marijuana Initiative in California.
In Florida, the legislature has recognized marijuana’s medical value, and that
state’s Supreme Court has ruled that patients should not go to jail for using the
drug. In 1995, Ohio created a special exception to the marijuana laws for
patients using the drug under a doctor’s order.

About Californians for Medical Rights

Californians for Medical Rights (CMR) is a non-partisan committee formed in Califomia
in 1996 to support Proposition 215. CMR was instrumental in gathering enough
signatures to qualify the initiative for the November 1996 ballot. CMR is not affiliated
with any political party or any other organization. Its sole purpose is to help pass
Proposition 215.
