Proposition 213

Quackenbush Initiative

January 2, 1996
SA95RF0041

Date:
File No.

The Attomey General of California has prepared the following
title and summary of the chief purpose and points of the
proposed measure:

LIMITATION ON RECOVERY TO FELONS, UNINSURED
MOTORISTS, DRUNK DRIVERS. INITIATIVE STATUTE.
Denies all recovery of damages to a convicted felon whose
injuries were proximately caused during the commission of the
felony or immediate flight therefrom. Denies recovery for
nonaconomic damages (€.g., pain, suffering, disfigurement) to
drunk drivers, if subsequently convicted, and to uninsured
motorists who were injured while cperating a vehicle. Providas
exception when an uninsured motorist is injured by a
subssquently convicted drunk driver. With this one exception,
provides that insurer is not liable for noneconomic damages.
Summary of estimate by Legislative Analyst and Director of
Finance of fiscal impact on state and local governments:
Reduction in these types of lawsuits could decrease court-
related costs to state and local governments and payments to
these plaintiffs. The savings would probably be minor. Possible
decrease In gross premiums tax revenue to the state through
somewhat lower premiums for liability coverage. This revenue
loss would probably be tess than $5 million annually and would
result in a corresponding reduction in state school spending of
about half of the loss.

11/1/95

AN INITIATIVE MEASURE TO BE SUBMITTED
DIRECTLY TO THE VOTERS

The Attomey General of California has prepared the
following title and summary of the chief purpose and points of the
proposed measure:

(Here set forth the title and summary prepared by the
Attorney General. This title and summary must also be printed
across the top of each page of the petition whereon signatures
are to appear.)

To the Honorable Secratary of State of California

We, the undersigned, registered, qualified voters of
Califomia, residents of __ County (or City and County),
hereby propose amendments to the Califomia Civil Code,
relating to limitations on civil lawsuits by certain persons, related
to fostering greater persona! responsibility, and petition the
Secretary of State to submit the same to the voters of California
for their adoption or rejection at the next succeeding general
election. The proposed statutory amendments (full title and text
of the measure) read as follows:

SECTION 1, TITLE

This Measure shail be known and may be cited as The
Personal Responsibility Act of 1996.

SECTION 2, FINDINGS AND DECLARATION OF PURPOSE

(a) Insurance costs have skyrocketed for those Califor-
nians who have taken responsibility for their actions. Uninsured
motorists, drunk drivers and criminal felons are law breakers,
and should not be rewarded for their irresponsibility and law
breaking. However, under current laws, uninsured motorists and
drunk drivers are able to recover unreasonable damages from
law abiding citizens as a result of accidents and drunk driving
accidents, and criminals have been able to recover damages
from law abiding citizens for injuries suffered during the
commission of their crimes.

(b) Californians must change the system that rewards
individuals who fail to take essential personal responsibility to
prevent them from seeking unreasonable damages or from suing
law abiding citizens.

(c) Therefore, the People of the State of California do
hereby enact this measure to restore balance to our justice
system by limiting the right to sue of criminals, drunk drivers and
uninsured motorists.

SECTION 3, CIVIL JUSTICE REFORM
Section 3333.3 is added to the Civil Code, to read:

9339.3, In any action for damages based on negligence, a
person may not recover any damages if the plaintiff's injuries
ware in any way proximately caused by the plaintiff's commission
of any felony, or immediate flight therefrom, and the plaintiff has
been duly convicted of that felony.

Section 3333.4 is added to the Civil Code, to read:

$333.4. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (c), in any
action to recover damages arising out of the operation or use of
@ motor vehicle, a person may not recover noneconomic losses
to compensate for pain, suffering, inconvenience, physical
impairment, disfigurement, and other nonpecuniary damages if
either of the following applies:

(1) The injured person was at the time of the accident
operating the vehicle in violation of Section 23162 or 23163 of
the Vehicle Code, and was convicted of that offense.

(2) The injured person was the owner of a vehicle involved
in the accident and the vehicie was not insured as required by the
financial responsibility laws of this state.

(3) The injured person was the operator of a vehicle
involved in the accident and the operator can not establish his or
her financial responsibility as required by the financial
responsibility laws of this state.

(b) Except as provided in subdivision (c), an insurer
shall nat be liable, directly or indirectly, under a policy of liability
or uninsured motorist insurance to indemnify for noneconomic
losses of a person injured as described in subdivision (a).

(c) Inthe event a person described in paragraph (2) of
subdivision (a) was injured by a motorist who at the time of the
accident was operating his or her vehicle in violation of Section
23152 or 23153 of the Vehicle Code, and was convicted of that
offense, the injured person shall not be barred from recovering
Noneconomic josses to compensate for pain, suffering,
