freedom socialist pa

los angeles local @ teamsters building, 1616 w. 9th st, hall #7, los angeles, ca 90015 @ (213) 365-1792

OPEN LETTER ON
NOVEMBER 5 GENERAL ELECTION

October 23, 1996
Dear Friend,

It is lesser-evil time in America again, that masochistic presidential season when the
country is advised that a beating from one fellow is better than a thrashing from another, when
fear is the only angle Madison Avenue has to get out the vote.

But wait! You can opt out of this electoral charade. There are socialist candidates
running on programs you can support. You can vote for the greater good instead of the lesser
evil. And you can tell the bunting-wrapped, union-busting, flag wavers of both parties you want a
change.

In California, there are ballot measures that make it urgent for you to go to the polls--to
defeat a rightwing attack on affirmative action and to raise California's minimum wage. You can
even vote to tax the rich and improve HMO health care.

So don't sit this election out.
Rock the Vote! Vote Socialist!

This year, as in the past, some leftists and progressives are using scare tactics and the
Dole-Gingrich ogre to get folks to choose between Tweedledee and Tweedledum. The
Communist Party is cynically calling a vote for anyone but Clinton a vote for fascism. But what
really happens when you give your vote to the Dems?

Think back to the 1992 presidential election. Imagine someone had said to you, "If the
Democrats get elected, within four years there will be 100,000 more cops on the streets, NAFTA
will pass, millions of women and children will be thrown into utter poverty by the destruction of
welfare, the power of the FBI will be greatly expanded, elderly immigrants will be tossed off
Medicare and lesbians and gays will still get kicked out of the military.". You might have seriously
considered voting for someone besides Bill Clinton.

If that same thought has crossed your mind this election, here are the socialist alternatives.
Since no socialist party is running a presidential ticket in all 50 states, Freedom Socialist Party
decided to rank the parties. and urge.a-vote for any one of them.as a protest against. the bankrupt
politics of the Democrats and Republicans.
