Sample Newsletter Article
Proposition 217 is Good for Schools and Communities

Facing a November 5th Voter Guide as thick as a dictionary, how is a voter to know what Proposition
217 will mean to them? Does putting more money towards schools and local services such as police
protection, firefighting, healthcare, parks and libraries, without raising new taxes sound like a good idea?
Then Proposition 217, the School and Community Investment Initiative deserves your support.

Proposition 217 raises $860 million the first year and approximately $700 million each year thereafter.
About half of these revenues are constitutionally required to go to schools under Proposition 98. The
other half is directed towards local services such as police, firefighting, healthcare, parks and libraries.

Proposition 217 raises this revenue by keeping in place the top two state income tax brackets of 10% a
11%, affecting only the wealthiest 1% of California taxpayers. These same rates have been in effect for
all but four years since 1973 when Ronald Reagan was Governor.

Local city and county services have been particularly hard hit since 1992 when the state started shifting
billions of dollars of local property tax monies to fund the state’s deficit In many communities this has
left basic services such as libraries, parks, infrastructure, emergency healthcare, fire and police
protection facing deep cuts and fighting over budget crumbs. According to Pat Libby, an L.A. County
librarian, “At a time when our libraries are facing extinction and our hospitals and clinics are threatened
with closure, it just doesn’t make sense to give a huge tax break to 1% of taxpayers when the money can
be reinvested in schools and local services for the benefit of everyone.”

"The top 1% of wage earners are not your average middle class, working family,” says Lenny Goldberg,
from the California Tax Reform Association and one of the proponents of Proposition 217. They are
corporate CEO’s, sports star millionaires and entertainment moguls. Only 169,000 out of over 14
million taxpayers are in the top brackets. Their average income is $488,000 a year. For the folks in the
11% bracket, the average income is $966,000 a year." 7

With a YES vote on Proposition 217, you'll be joining a non-partisan coalition including the League of
Women Voters of California, the California State PTA, Congress of California Seniors, Health Access,
the Sierra Club, the California Federation of Teachers, the California Professional Firefighters, the
California Coalition of Law Enforcement Agencies, California Teachers Association, State
Superintendent of Schools Delaine Eastin, and hundreds of county supervisors, mayors, city council a.
school board members and other community, labor and religious leaders.

So who could be against Proposition 217? The California Chamber of Commerce and the National
Federation of Independent Businesses, whose membership includes some of the wealthiest taxpayers in
the state, are against Proposition 217. They have pledged to spend $1.8 million to defeat Proposition
217 and in order to defend a tax cut for themselves, they are claiming that small businesses will be hurt
by 217. With millions of small businesses in California, even if every one of the 169,000 taxpayers in
the 1% who would be affected by Prop. 217 were small business people, it would still impact only a tiny
percent of small businesses. Its also hard to imagine why a business owner who is being asked to pay
the same rate in April of 1997 as they did in April of 1996 would be forced to close down and move out
of state.

Remember to VOTE on November Sth and make an investment in your local schools and
community by voting YES on proposition 217!
