REVITALIZING OUR

tional and management training programs;
and simplified governmental administration
for reduced government waste (see our
“Economy” section).

To improve education, the Natural Law Party
would support programs that develop the
inner creative genius of all students, along
with the ability to conduct their lives in ac-
cord with natural law. Only education that is
perceived as directly relevant to the student’s
own life—education that unfolds full men-
tal potential and the ability to fulfill desires
in harmony with natural law—can prevent
dropouts, who become the primary targets
of inner-city crime and drug abuse (see our
“Education” section).

To improve public safety, the Natural Law
Party would support proven, cost-effective
programs that have been shown to rehabili-

52

INNER: CITIES

tate criminal offenders; prevention programs
that target at-risk youth before they become
involved in crime; effective programs to pre-
vent and cure alcohol and drug abuse; and a
permanent coherence-creating group to re-
duce stress and create a more harmonious
social atmosphere throughout the city (see
our “Crime and Rehabilitation” section).

To rebuild the inner city, the Natural Law
Party would help plan urban infrastructure
and housing that improve health, reduce
crime, and restore a sense of community. The
Natural Law Party would promote the de-
velopment of nonpolluting automobiles and
public transportation, human-scale housing
that discourages crime and supports neigh-
borhoods in which families can grow and
prosper, and the development of more parks
and green spaces (see our “Energy and En-
vironment” section).

DRUG ABUSE

THE MOST EFFECTIVE DEFENSE against
drugs is proper education—education that di-
rectly unfolds intelligence and creativity, builds
self-confidence, eliminates stress, and raises life
to be in harmony with natural law, thereby elimi-
nating the tendency towards drug dependence.

To be effective, education must be deeply satis-
fying and directly relevant to a person’s own life.
Such education will eliminate functional and
technological illiteracy and also prevent drop-
outs, who become the principal targets for drugs
and drug-related crime (see our “Education” sec-
tion).

For those currently suffering from drug depen-
dence, the Natural Law Party promotes programs
that have been shown to dramatically reduce
drug dependency and to eliminate stress and re-
store balance in an individual’s physiology and
psychology (see our “Health” section) [1].

The responsibility for stemming. the drug trade
currently belongs to numerous federal agencies,
including the Drug Enforcement Administration,
the Border Patrol of the Immigration and Natu-
ralization Service, and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, as well as many state and local
agencies. This fragmented approach inevitably

53

results in overlapping and at times self-defeat-
ing investigations, apprehensions, and prosecu-
tions. These conflicts make administration inef-
ficient—and sometimes result in senseless
anomalies that allow known criminals to escape
prosecution altogether. The Natural Law Party
therefore supports procedures that will promote
cooperation and coordination among the vari-
ous law enforcement agencies responsible for
interdicting, apprehending, and prosecuting in-
dividuals and organizations engaged in illegal
drug and narcotics activities.

NOTES

1. For example, a recent meta-analysis showed
that Transcendental Meditation, one of the pro-
grams advocated by the Natural Law Party, re-
duces alcohol, drug, and nicotine abuse signifi-
cantly more than other treatment modalities (A/-
coholism Treatment Quarterly 11(1/2,3/4),
1994). Earlier reviews suggested that Transcen-
dental Meditation simultaneously affects several
factors underlying chemical dependence by pro-
viding both relief from distress and improve-
ments in well-being and overall psychophysi-
ological health (Journal of Addictions 14:147,
1981; International Journal of Addictions
127729; 1977).

