who inhabit it. Although diversity is most commonly associated with our educational systems, the
vitality of diverse environments is as indispensable to healthy workplaces as it is to healthy classrooms.

The basic idea behind diversity is that a person's race and ethnicity and gender often affect both
the way that person experiences life and the way that person interprets those experiences. A diverse
group of people is more likely to exhibit a variety of fundamental assumptions, perspectives and
prejudices than is a homogenous group. This is not the same as saying that all people who look alike
think alike, or saying that there is any such thing as a "woman's perspective" or a "Black perspective."
The goal of diversity presumes intragroup variety as much as it does intergroup variety. Diversity does
not presume that White men from Kennebunk, Maine and Biloxi, Mississippi and DuBois, Wyoming
hold identical beliefs, values and life experiences. Nor does diversity presume that a Guatemalan from
South Central Los Angeles and a Chicana from El Paso and a Puertoriquefia from Chicago and a
Cubana from New York hold identical beliefs, values and life experiences. Diversity presumes variety,
not homogeneity. It allows people to confront and assess types of people they have never known
before, whether that person is of a different race or ethnicity or whether that person is of the same race
and ethnicity. Nor does diversity presume that diverse environments are free of friction and conflict. It
simply recognizes that few things worth having are attained without taking risks and confronting such
difficulties with honesty and patience.

What makes diversity worth having is that when diverse views collide, each individual's
assumptions may be challenged and each individual has the opportunity to test the beliefs of others and
of one's self. One hundred years ago a Harvard University educator wrote that diversity “promotes
thought on great themes, converts passion into resolution, cultivates forbearance and mutual respect,
and teaches candor, moral courage and independence of thought." These fruits of diversity are not
possible where diverse ideas are only encountered in disembodied abstractions -- they are produced by
encountering flesh and blood human beings who can defend their ideas passionately and with utter
conviction.

Presented by the
UCLA School of Law Affirmative Action
Outreach, Education & Organizing Project
For More Information, Please E-Mail Us at “Mattson@Law3.Law.UCLA.Edu"
& Visit Our Affirmative Action Homepage at “http://www.law.ucla.edu/Class/Archive/CivAA/* 5
