days. The reply shall indicate either (1)
acceptance, in which case the amount of rental
assistance subsidy and the pre-subsidy
monthly rent level shall then be stated; or (2)
rejection, in which case the basis for such
rejection shall also be stated. Once a qualified
tenant has received a rental assistance subsidy
during any part of a calendar year, the rental
assistance subsidy shall continue until
December 31 of that year, subject to early
termination as provided in this Article.

798.44.4 Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Article to the contrary:

(a) (1) In any jurisdiction in
which mobilehome park rent control is in
effect, the management of a mobilehome park
shall be exempt from the rental assistance
subsidy provisions of this Article if, and as
long as, more than ten-percent of the spaces
occupied by mobilehomes in such mobilehome
park are covered by any form of mobilehome
park rent control.

(2) In any jurisdiction in
which mobilehome park rent control is in
effect, if at any time fewer than ten-percent of
the spaces occupied by mobilehomes in a
mobilehome park are covered by any form of
mobilehome park rent control, the
management of a mobilehome park shall be
subject to the provisions of this Article and
shall be required to provide rental assistance
subsidy to a qualified tenant; provided,
however, that the management of the
mobilehome park shall not be required to
provide such rental assistance subsidy if
granting the subsidy would result in more than
ten-percent of the spaces in the mobilehome
park being covered either by any form of
mobilehome park rent control or by the rental
assistance subsidy provided by this Article.
The priority for granting rental assistance
subsidy shall be governed by subdivision (c) of
this section 798.44.4.

granted on October | will terminate on December
31, which means that the homeowner shall need
io apply ail over again.

KEY: As long as more than 10% of occupied
spaces are still covered by rent control, the
subsidy need not be given to anyone. Example:
In a 200 space park, subsidies don’t start till
fewer than 20 spaces are under rent control. It
would take years to get to this point! The
proponents of this measure estimate as long as
ten years. During this time, none of the
remaining 90% of spaces, once they are
decontrolled, shall be covered by any form of
protection.

Once less than 10% of spaces are covered by rent
control, the subsidy program begins, but subject
to a further requirement: the combined number
of spaces on rent control or subsidies cannot
exceed 10%. Example: In a 200 space park, if
15 spaces are still on rent control, only 5 can get
subsidies. The maximum 10% subsidy level is
not reached until all spaces are decontrolled by
one of the events as defined above.

PAGE A-10
