e Clinton Record

Aid for Disadvantaged Students

® President Clinton’s new budget would expand Head
Start to serve 50,000 additional children from disadvan-
taged or at-risk communities. The President vetoed
Speaker Newt Gingrich’s budget plan, which would have
cut Title I (formerly Chapter I) and eliminated Head Start
services for 100,000 kids. :

(U.S. Department of Education release, 10/23/95;
Committee for Education Funding, 1996)

@ Leaders in Congress pushed for 17% cuts in the
Title I program. The cuts would leave many low-
achieving students — 238,000 children in California
alone— without the supplemental books, instructional
aides, and other resources needed. President Clinton
made it clear he would veto any bill that cut Title I. In
the end, Congress gave in, and the final bill actually
provided the program with a slight increase in funding.
(Roll Call, 5/13/96; The Fresno (Calif. Bee, 2/27/96)

@ Under the Clinton administration, local school systems
have gained more flexibility in using Title I funds.
Local districts and their teaching staff can gain waivers
from certain regulations. Schools in high-poverty areas
can even use Title I funds for schoolwide improvement
programs.

(Roll Call, 5/13/96)

Safe & Drug-Free Schools

® Inaddition to increased funds for drug treatment and
prevention, the President’s budget continues funding for
the Safe and Drug-Free Schools Act — helping to
support programs developed by local communities and
school districts to to steer students away from drugs and
alcohol. The Act helps to underwrite local efforts that
reach 23 million students.

(Washington Post, 3/20/96)

Meeting High Standards

@ President Clinton’s Goals 2000 plan focuses educa-
tion reform around establishing and helping student meet
high standards. Each state sets up a panel made up of
faculty, school employees, parents, administrators and

This information is provided for members
of the American Federation of Teachers

PUBLIC EDUCATION

others who help set clear and rigorous standards for
students.
(Wall Street Journal, 4/22/93)

= Last year, the President endorsed AFT’s Lessons

for Life campaign to uphold high standards of student
conduct and student achievement: “It lifts the debate up ...
gets it beyond partisan strategies that divide the American

people.”
(Speech to American Federation of Teachers’ QuEST conference, 7/28/95)

Private School Vouchers

@ Both before and after he took office, President Clinton
has declared his opposition to vouchers proposals allow-
ing public tax dollars to be used for private and/or
religious schools. The President’s threat of a veto has
helped to defeat voucher plans in Congress. In an AFT
questionnaire for candidates, Clinton called private-school
vouchers “a strategy for undermining the one institution
with the greatest hope for binding us together as a nation:
public education.”

(AFT presidential candidate questionnaire, 2/7/92)

School Lunches

@ The President vetoed a bill that would have made cut
the federal school lunch program by $500 million and
transferred it to the states in the form of ‘block grants’.
The bill would have jeopardized school lunch eligibility for
millions of school children.

(Presidential veto of budget bill on 1/10/96)

Technology & Schools

@ President Clinton’s new budget would earmarks $250
million to help place more computers in classrooms. He
and Vice-President Al Gore are committed to getting every
school connected to the “information superhighway.”
(President’s budget proposal, 1996)

a
Ae OUR FUTURE
OUR DECISION
