(PSRP letter)

Dear Member,

Each and every day, you work hard to help our schools operate smoothly and efficiently. Without
your contributions, little or no learning could ever take place. But the communities in which
school employees live and work face many issues and concerns — violence and gangs, single-
parent families struggling to pay the bills, and schools without the necessary supplies and
resources.

These and other issues are affected by the decisions made in Washington, D.C. As we look
ahead to the November 5 election, we as school employees need to support candidates who are
ready to support us in addressing these issues. When it comes to violence, education and other
issues, there is a world of difference between President Clinton and Senator Dole:

@ President Clinton led the effort to expand Head Start to serve 50,000 more at-risk children.
Newt Gingrich and Bob Dole that would have denied coverage to 100,000 children — but
President Clinton vetoed this bill.

@ President Clinton’s Safe and Drug-Free Schools program provides funds for school districts

to develop their own projects to combat violence and gangs and keep young people off drugs.
The President’s crime bill also addresses gang violence by banning 19 types of assault weap-
ons. The Clinton approach is beginning to have an impact: According to FBI statistics, juvenile
crime declined last year. Senator Dole voted against the assault-weapons ban, and Dole sup-
ported a budget bill that would have cut the Safe and Drug-Free Schools program by 55%.

@ President Clinton led the fight to raise the minimum wage by 90 cents. He recognized that
40% of all minimum-wage earners are the sole providers for their families. Before he left the
Senate, Dole refused to support any increase. He has voted against raising the minimum wage
nine different times. In the 35 years he spent in Washington, Dole voted seven times to raise
his own pay.

@ President Clinton is strongly opposed to using vouchers as a way to transfer public tax
dollars to private schools. Last year, the President rejected a bill that would have handed over
millions of tax dollars to private schools. Dole voted for this voucher plan. If elected, Dole’s
plan is to take $2.5 billion out of existing education funds to use for private school vouchers.

The Clinton and Dole records provide us with a clear choice on Tuesday, November 5. This
comparison explains why the 3,000 delegates to the American Federation of Teachers’ conven-
tion this August voted to endorse President Clinton for re-election. | urge you to consider these
issues as you cast your vote. So much is at stake. Thank you.

In solidarity,

[Your name], President
[Name or initials of AFT Local]
