50-POINT ACTION PLAN

economy, intelligence and creativity, innovation and ideas, drive economic growth. The
Natural Law Party strongly supports proven educational, job training, and apprenticeship
programs that develop intelligence and creativity and prevent school dropouts. Only the full
utilization of our human resource through the Natural Law Party’s fundamental
commitment to education will ensure America’s competitiveness and future leadership in
the family of nations.

HEALTH

Support health strategies that focus on prevention and strengthen the
general health of the nation, thereby shifting our national focus from
disease care to health care. Recent research shows that 50% of deaths and 70% of
disease in America are “self-inflicted” —caused by an epidemic of unhealthy habits. The
vast majority of disease is therefore preventable.

Support the introduction of financial incentives that will help prevent abuse
of the health care system and ensure high-quality care, including (1)
medical savings accounts for Medicare and Medicaid subscribers, which
will provide financial rewards for good health; and (2) vouchers enabling
Medicare and Medicaid enrollees to choose any insurance plan or health
care provider they desire, thereby promoting competitive costs and quality
of care among medical providers.

The implementation of verifiable, cost-effective prevention together with the above financial
incentives will rescue Medicare and Medicaid from bankruptcy, save the nation
approximately $500 billion a year in health care costs, and prevent untold pain and
suffering.

Promote life in accord with natural law through the reduction of individual
and social stress, thereby achieving a lasting social transformation toward
more life-supporting, health-promoting behavior among our citizens.

EDUCATION

Support proven educational initiatives and curriculum innovations,
including:
¢ The Head Start program, to help children excel from an early age

¢ Proven developmental technologies, such as the Transcendental Medi-
tation program, to directly increase intelligence and boost educational
outcomes

¢ School vouchers to increase school choice, foster competition, and
improve educational outcomes

¢ Federally guaranteed student loans and Pell Grants for higher education
¢ Higher national standards and the practical means to achieve them

¢ National apprenticeship programs for students who are not college bound
¢ Computer-aided instruction, including Internet instruction

¢ Sound approaches to school nutrition and preventive health education

¢ Effective drug prevention

¢ Policies and programs to upgrade the status and skills of teachers

50-POINT ACTION PLAN

CRIME AND REHABILITATION

Support systematic, scientifically proven programs to reduce stress in the
individual and throughout society—thus eliminating the root cause of
crime.

Target individuals who are at highest risk for crime—the current prison
inmate population—through proven rehabilitation programs and advanced
scientific methods to assess rehabilitation and eligibility for parole.

Implement community policing. Such programs have been credited with reducing
crime by 40% during the last two years in New York City. In this approach, police are
assigned to high-crime neighborhoods identified by computer tracking, work closely with
these neighborhoods, and are rewarded for preventing crime.

Revitalize our overcrowded urban centers—breeding grounds for violence
and crime.

Introduce programs proven to reduce drug dependency and promote mental
and physical health.

Support effective educational programs to keep children in school, off the
streets, and out of the reach of crime. The Natural Law Party’s strong educational
focus is the true, long-term solution to the pervasive problem of crime.

AGRICULTURE

Support legislation that will ensure social, economic, and environmental
sustainability of agriculture while balancing the following goals: (1) ensuring high-
quality, healthy food for consumers; (2) promoting health and longevity in farmers and in
the population as a whole; (3) protecting natural resources and the environment; (4)
cushioning farmers from the natural and financial instability unique to agriculture; (5)
enabling farmers to better pursue financial profitability; and (6) restoring the vitality of
family farms and rural communities.

Mandate the labeling of genetically engineered foods and declare a
moratorium on the release of genetically engineered organisms until the
ecological and health impacts of genetic engineering and the safety of such
organisms can be firmly established.

Shift the U.S. policy focus from “cheap food for the consumer” to “quality
food for the consumer on a sustainable basis.” Agrichemical use could be
reduced 50% by the year 2000 and farm profits could increase through field-tested
techniques supported by scientific research, such as integrated pest management, integrated
crop management, and organic methods.

ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT

Support the development and use of new, environmentally clean energy
sources, such as solar, wind, and biomass by (1) removing federal subsidies for
fossil fuels and nuclear energy and (2) taxing fossil fuels to reflect their real cost to the
nation. :
