w— California
Federation of Teachers

A\MERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS, AFL-CIO

30 October 1996
Dear AFT/CFT member:

I'm writing to enlist your support for Scott Wildman, who is running for the California State
Assembly in your district.

Last year’s legislative session was the worst in my memory. We were faced with proposed
legislation to eliminate due process rights that protect us all from arbitrary action by
administrators and boards of trustees, to repiace the uniform salary schedule with merit pay
systems established by local boards, to institute voucher (“opportunity scholarship”) programs,
and to contract out many of the services we provide. The much-heralded class size reduction
program was possible only because the governor's tax cut proposal was defeated; even so, the
program is underfunded.

Scott Wildman supports due process for faculty and support personnel, as well as greater
opportunities for professional preparation and ongoing professional development. He opposes
vouchers and false merit pay schemes.

Having been a teacher as well as a representative for United Teachers-Los Angeles, Scott
Wildman knows well, and is passionately committed to, public education at all levels. We need
more people like Scott in the state legislature—people who understand and champion public
education and who truly appreciate those of us who make public education our life’s work.

A vote for Scott Wildman is a vote for education and a continued push for excellence for all our
students at all levels of the education system. So be sure to vote—vote for Scott, and urge your
family and neighbors to do the same.

| also want to encourage you to take an active role in Scott Wildman’s campaign during these
final days before the election. Teachers and classified employees have great credibility with
other voters, both in persuading them how to vote and in getting them to the polls. If you can
volunteer any time this weekend or on election day, call the campaign office, (818) 526-0300.
Be part of a victory that will help all of us who care about quality education for all our students.

Sincerely,

Mary Bergan
President
MAB:ps

OPEIU:29/AFL-CIO
\CFT\MARY\WILDMAN.WPD

MB One Kaiser Piaza, Suite 1440 ¢ Oaktano, CAurorniA 94612 © (510) 832-8812 © Fax (510) 832-5044 ml
Go =-
