Volunteers Needed
Health Access needs volunteers for
general clerical, activism, lobbying,
and policy analysis. Can you
contribute at least 10 hours a week
to use / learn these skills and
become a leading advocate for
health care accessibility? Call Bruce
Livingston or Marisha Anderson if
you are interested at (415) 431-3430

In the Bay Area...

What to look for --

And look out for --

When choosing and using
Health care services:

Bay Area Health Care Choices is a
new publication by Families U.S.A.,
sponsored and co-produced by
Health Access Foundation. It
provides step-by-step information,
helpful lists and sound advice on:

Choosing an HMO or insurer
Picking a doctor

Consumer rights

Women’s health

Long term care

Seniors’ health

Hospitals

Dental Care

And more!

+
+
+
4
+
4
4
+
+

“You can’t know too much about

health care these days. This is an
invaluable resource,”

Dean S. Edell, MD

Medical Journalist

Bay Area Health Care Choices
Costs Only $10.95
Bulk orders are even cheaper.

To order, call (415)431-3430
or 1-(800)699-6960

Contributors...

We would like to thank the following individuals, foundations, agencies and
labor unions for their generous support this last half year.

Pacesetter: 5,000+
Mary Jane Brinton

California Federation of Teachers

California Teachers Association
SEIU- State Council

Patron: $1,000+

Congress of California Seniors
The Friendship Fund

Screen Actors Guild

Supporter: $250-500
Susan Karlins & David Sausjord

Advocate: $100-249
Joanne Aiello

Pauline Armstrong
Clayton Berling

James Ford

L.A. & Lucille Freeman
Robert Gould

Paul Guth

Nettie Hoge

Bernard & Alba Witkin

Jewish Community Endowment Fund
Alvin & Pearl Leonard

Steven Rubin

Ethel Sanjines

S.H. Silver

M. Brewster Smith

Marc Snyder

Franz Wasserman

Health Access Staff

Bruce Livingston
Marisha Anderson
Alicia Maddocks
Beth Capell
Jennie Greene

Executive Director
Administrator/Newsletter Editor
Bookkeeper

Lobbyist, Health Access California
Research Assistant

Foundations

California Consumer Protection Foundation
Public Welfare Foundation

Health Access is a member of the Progressive Way; please give at your place

of work.

Health Access is Searching for Office Space
We would like 1000-1500 square feet, conference space, kitchen facilities, near
San Francisco BART stops. Please call us at:(415) 431-3430 with any helpful

information.

(Health Care Patient Protection Act of 1996, continued)

Health Access California Opposes:

Health Access California with deep sadness and great
reluctance voted to oppose the Patient Protection Act, a
measure being circulated by the California Nurses
Association and Harvey Rosenfield (of Prop. 103 Insurance
fame).

Howard Owens, the Chair of Health Access California
said, "The California Nurses Association shares our goal of
assuring universal access to quality, affordable health care;
however, we feel that the Health Care Patient Protection
Act of 1996 has much better crafted policies to protect
patients than the CNA initiative."

The managed care patient protections in the CNA
initiative are nearly identical to the initiative endorsed by
Health Access California - but in addition the CNA
initiative has detrimental tax measures and other
provisions. From a consumer perspective, the Patient
Protection Act proposal has serious policy flaws:
¢ Imposing a fee on removing hospital beds could inhibit

cutting hospital waste and drive up costs, and does not

in itself improve quality of care.

(Health Access continues to demand that any
attempts to remove licensed beds or to close hospitals
or clinics be closely examined on a case by case basis;

California to Congress:

and we believe that single payer reform could utilize
health care capacity better.)
The measure could undermine the work done by
consumer groups on conversions of HMOs and
hospitals such as Blue Cross from non-profit to for-
profit.
The measure includes a two-thirds legislative vote
requirement to change any provisions. This would
virtually freeze any adjustments to law governing the
managed care industry.
The measure includes a consumer board which would
have six of thirteen positions appointed by the
Governor, making it less of a consumer protection
body and more of a politicized body.
Only licensed and certified nurses and doctors are
covered by the gag rule protections and staffing
requirements. (The Health Care Patient Protection
Act of 1996 covers all providers, including nurses aides
and ambulance workers.)
Health Access California appeals to the CNA not to
proceed with this measure and instead to rally around a
single initiative, the Health Care Patient Protection Act

~ of 1996. We look forward to continuing to work with the

CNA on the larger goals of access to quality, affordable
health care for all Californians.

Don’t Block Grant Medicaid... Don’t Cut Back Medicare
Don’t Pass the National Governor’s Association Budget

Health Access was deeply involved in 1995 in
addressing concerns about the potential loss of Medicare
and Medicaid dollars to California and its counties.
Incredibly, the nation still has no annual federal budget,
well into the fiscal year.

The latest painful compromise is being proposed by
the National Governor’s Association, and it is bad. It
could allow states to reduce Medicaid contributions by
over $200 billion a year. It would remove guarantees of
coverage for poor women, young children, persons with
disabilities and let states decide if they want to provide
health care for these individuals. (The problems are
endless: for further background call Consumers Union at
(415) 431-6747 or National Health Law Program (310) 204-
6010.)

Sen. Diane Feinstein & Sen. Barbara Boxer need to
hear how you feel about the governors’ outrageous plan.
The free Congressional Hotline is (800) 962-3524

He 3 Mees ee

The public spoke out strongly against Medicare and Medicare
cutbacks. Shown above is a Health Access California
demonstration at the office of Congressman, Bill Baker,
Republican-Walnut Creek.

