These campaign activities do not come for free. It takes money to print
brochures and to produce commercials.

The park owners may have a few wealthy campaign contributors, but GSMOL,
with more than 55,000 members statewide, has true grassroots strength in numbers.

Please join the Golden State Mobilhome Owners League today and help us
stop the Mobilehome Eviction Initiative.

Our minimum membership dues is $15, but your contribution today of $20,
$25, $30 -- or as much as you can afford -- is vital to defeating the initiative. Every
dollar that you contribute above the $15 dues will be used to fight the initiative.

As a GSMOL member, you'll not only be helping to defeat the Mobilehome:
Eviction Initiative -- you'll also be standing up for the rights of mobilehome owners
wherever they are threatened.

As a member, you'll also receive:

* A subscription to the GSMOL Californian, the monthly newspaper that keeps
you involved in and aware of important issues facing mobilehome owners.
From taxes to rents to park rules and regulations, you'll know what's
happening and how it could affect you.

* Representation and a “loud voice" from a statewide army of volunteers in cities
- throughout California, and a professional Legislative Advocate in Sacramento.

* Answers to your questions through our toll-free 800-number: 1-800-888-1727.
* Protection of your chosen lifestyle as a mobilehome owner.

GSMOL is the only statewide organization in California that is run by
mobilehome owners for the benefit of mobilehome owners. Re

__ With your help today as a new member, we can stop the Mobilehome Eviction
Initiative and protect seniors and low-income families from excessive rent increases.
Please be generous. Thanks for helping.

Sincerely,

t7- wad

President

PS. -- Your membership dues today are vital to defeating the Mobilehome Eviction
Initiative. Without adequate funds, we won't be able to get our message out, and the
park owners will use their millions to spread lies and distortions that we won't be able
to answer. Please be generous -- people's homes are at stake!

GSSOSD! Recycled Paper
