f

Ja

roposition 217

A number of studies have shown that high rates reduce incentives to invest, shift
money into non-taxable investments and result in a drag on the economy. Leading
economists state high tax rates reduce the demand to work, save and invest by
reducing after tax rates of return. With reduced incentives for work and investment,
there is a smaller economic pie for all citizens.

Uncertainty about how new revenue would be spent. The initiative states its intent
to fund local public safety, libraries and recreation programs. However, there are no
requirements in the initiative specifying how the funds are to be spent. If cities and
counties were to spend the money as they now allocate their budgets, half of the
money would fund health and welfare programs, and only about 10 percent of their
new revenue from this proposition would be used for the programs mentioned.

Negatively affects redevelopment financing. Locking in 1995-96 property tax
allocations would have damaging effects on redevelopment financing. Revenue
from increased property values, which is currently used to fund debt service and
other costs associated with the development of blighted and underdeveloped areas
of the state, would most likely have to be shared with other jurisdictions.

Complicates tax reform. The proposition would freeze the amount and the
proportionate share of income taxes paid by taxpayers in the 10 percent and 11
percent brackets, with respect to any future legislation. This would create
monumental difficulties in future attempts to conform California law to federal law. It
would also preclude, forever, any future across-the-board tax reduction or
consideration of a “flat” tax by the Legislature. (Since the proposition only allows
amendment by the Legislature to further its intent, voters would have to nullify the
proposition with a subsequent ballot proposition.)

Fiscal Impact:

Taxpayers: The Legislative Analyst estimates that this proposition would increase
taxes approximately $700 million annually. This estimate is based ona static __
estimate that assumes no changes in taxpayer behavior to minimize the additional
taxes the proposition would impose.

Schools: The Legislative Analyst estimates that approximately one-half of the
increased revenue generated by the higher tax rates would go to schools. There
are no provisions providing how the money is to be spent within the schools. If
current spending trends continue, eight-five percent would be spent for salaries of
school administrators, teachers and classified employees of school districts.

September 15, 1996 Page 3
