fh "70 Years of Service «
iCal-Tax

1926 - 1996

Proposition 217 Would Thwart Tax Reform Efforts

Hidden in the fine print of Proposition 217 is a provision which could effectively ban tax
reform changes long supported by the business community. Specifically, Proposition 217
contains language preventing any tax changes that modify the aggregate percentage or dollar
amount of tax that is paid by California's top income earners. If Proposition 217 passes, these
taxpayers would be singled out, not only for retroactive tax increases this year, but also for
punitive restriction on tax reforms in future years. ¢

This restriction would be enacted by adding Section 17041(j) to the Revenue and
Taxation Code, reading in part:

It is the intent of the people of the State of California that any future enactment
that alters the rate, base, or burden of the state personal income tax at least
maintain the level and proportionate share of revenues derived from the marginal
income tax rates provided for by the statutory initiative adding this subdivision.

This, combined with the fact that the 10% and 11% tax rates would be amendable only
by voter approved statute, could effectively preclude many tax changes designed to benefit
California's economy, jobs climate, or families. Following are a few examples (there may be
many more) of tax changes that Proposition 217 would ban:

* Across-the-board tax rate reduction, like the Governor's proposed 15% reduction for all
tax brackets. This would be prevented by locking in the 10% and 11% brackets, which could
only be changed by another vote of the people.

* Capital gains tax credits or rate reductions. If taxpayers in the upper brackets realize
more capital gains than other taxpayers, this type of tax incentive could change the
proportionate share of tax paid by the upper brackets compared with other taxpayers.

* Small business tax changes, such as the recently-enacted provision allowing greater
deductions for equipment purchases in the year of purchase. Two-thirds of the taxpayers to
be affected by Proposition 217's tax increases have business income. Because this group
of taxpayers may earn more business income than other taxpayers, changes in deductions
or credits claimed by these businesses could alter the proportionate share of taxes paid by
this group.

* Tax credits for tuition or other higher education expenses, as proposed by President
Clinton. If analysts project that upper-income taxpayers would benefit more than other
taxpayers (e.g., because they may send their children to more expensive schools or
because more of their children pursue a higher education), this reform could not be adopted
in California unless upper-income taxpayers were excluded.

* Flat tax. This would violate two of the initiative's provisions by changing the 10% and 11%
rates, as well as altering the proportionate share paid by those at the top.

September 26, 1996

