charge for a mobilehome space within such
park upon or after a decontrolling event, as
defined in Section 798.13(/).

(d) On or after the effective date
of this Measure, no mobilehome park rent
control law shall impose any restriction
whatsoever on the amount of rent that the
management of a mobilehome park may
charge for a space within such park which is
an exempt space, as defined in Section
798.13(d). All exempt spaces shall be, for all
purposes on or after the effective date of this
Measure, exempt from any and all mobilehome
park rent control laws.

798.46.3 The State of California shall
enact no statute restricting, or authorizing the
restriction of, the maximum amount of rent
that the management of a mobilehome park
may charge for a space in a mobilehome park.
Any statute having that effect and enacted
before or after the effective date of this
Measure shall be void and unenforceable.

SECTION 6: AMENDMENT OR REPEAL
OF MEASURE.

The provisions of this Measure may be
amended or repealed by the procedures set
forth in this section. If any portion of
subdivision (a) is declared invalid, then
subdivision (b) shall be the exclusive means of
amending or repealing this title.

(a) The provisions of this Measure
may be amended to further its purposes by
statute, passed in each house by rollcall vote
entered in the journal, two-thirds of the
membership concurring and signed by the
Governor.

(b) The provisions of this Measure
may be amended or repealed by a statute that
becomes effective only when approved by the
electors.

Any space which is exempt on the date that the
Initiative is passed shall never again be covered
by rent control (see definition of “exempt space”
above).

No new state rent control law may ever be
enacted in the future.

This section describes the only ways in which the
Initiative can be amended‘ once it is voted :n (1)
by a 2/3 vote of each house of the Cai:torma
legislature and signature of the Governor. »r. if
(1) is invalid, (2) by a new initiative vote E:ther
route would be nearly impossible to achieve

Thus, once this Initiative passes, it will probably
remain unchanged.

Note that the Initiative can only be repealed by a
statewide Initiative vote. Neither the Califorma
legislature nor the Governor shall have any
power to repeal, but only to amend.

PAGE A-15
