apply for and if accepted, shall receive,
directly from the management of a
mobilehome park in which such tenant resides,
a rental assistance subsidy subject to the terms
and conditions provided for in this Article.

798.44.2 The provision of the rental
assistance subsidy shall be the sole
responsibility and obligation of each
management of a mobilehome park and
neither the State of California nor any
governmental agency shall have any
responsibility therefor or exercise any
authority in connection therewith, except as
provided in Section 798.44.6 of this Article.

798.44.3 (a) Each tenant seeking to
obtain a rental assistance subsidy shall provide
the management with an application, together
with competent evidence of facts, to prove the
tenant is a qualified tenant. This application
and evidence may be submitted at any time
during any calendar year up to December 15
for consideration of the rental assistance
subsidy for the ensuing calendar year
commencing January 1. The evidence
accompanying the application shall consist of
ownership and residency in the mobilehome
and such income and other information as is
customarily required by the governmental
agency administering the housing assistance

benefits for Very Low Income persons under °

Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of
1937 (42 U.S.C. sec. 1437) and such other
evidence as is reasonably required. However,
no mobilehome park management shall make
this application process more burdensome to
the tenant than would be the case if the tenant
were applying for housing assistance benefits
for Very Low Income persons under Section 8
of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42
U.S.C. sec. 1437).

(b) Each mobilehome _ park
management shall, promptly upon receipt of
such application and evidence specified in
paragraph (a) evaluate the same and reply to
such tenant with notice within 10 working

and be accepted by management. Approval is not
automatic.

KEY: The park owners are to police themselves.
No state or local government shall monitor their
compliance with the law.

Residents are required to submit “competent
evidence of facts” to prove entitlement to the
subsidy. No exact description is given as to what
those “facts” might be. The park owner is thus
given great discretion as to what information can
be required. Obviously, the resident shall need to
submit detailed financial information to the park
owner. This will provide the park owner, who is
an adversary in the rental relationship, with
private financial information which could
someday be used against the resident. Note that
in 798.74, the park owner is currently prohibited
from requesting that new buyers submit tax
returns. This Initiative would change that. Note
also that there is no guarantee that the
information shall remain confidential.

Note: Since no rules for rejection or approval are
stated, a rejection appears to be at management’s
sole discretion. Subsidies do not last beyond
December 31 of the year when given, unless they
are renewed the following year. Thus, a subsidy

PAGE A-9
