Bottom Line: By eliminating the need for costly enforcement, bureaucracy and
litigation expenses, the Mobilehome Fairness Initiative will save taxpayers
millions of dollars that can be used on vital public services like police and fire
protection — top.community priorities these days.

Support is strong for the initiative

The initiative is supported by broad-based interests including park resident
representatives, parkowners, taxpayer groups, and other community and civic
organizations. Because the subsidy will become available to tens of thousands of park
tenants immediately, while simultaneously offering parkowners the regulatory relief
they need to stay in business, and because local governments will benefit from phasing
out layers of regulatory bureaucracy, this initiative has the opportunity to be a win-
win-win for California.

Polls show that if the election were today, 63% of voters would vote yes on the
initiative because of its progressive reforms and benefits for local government
budgets.

What other factors make this initiative timely?

The initiative helps the truly needy, such as seniors on fixed incomes

The initiative is aimed at those most in need of assistance, rather than entire mobile-
home neighborhoods. Public sentiment has shifted in favor of targeted assistance
rather than blanket benefits regardless of need.

Mobilehome rent control doesn’t work

Independent studies prove that while there is a one-time windfall to park residents
when rent control is introduced, the benefits disappear when first generation tenants
sell their homes to succeeding tenants. Over the long term, the free market provides
more equitable protection for both parkowners and tenants.

More affordable housing will be available in California

Rent control is a disincentive to new construction. There have been no mobilehome
parks built in California in the last five years, and there are no current plans to build
any. This halt in new construction is leading to a shortage of one our most viable and
affordable housing sources — especially for senior citizens and young families.

For further information please contact James Vaughn at (213) 891-2822.

Bes
