In the election of 1994, the people of America voted resoundingly and decisively
against -- against higher taxes, against bigger government, against more intrusive rules
and regulations, against assaults on family life, against socialized medicine, against the
old way of doing things. And they voted against Bill Clinton, against his ideology and
soft ambivalence, against his weak and aimless foreign policy.

But in 1996 we can vote for. For a new way of doing things, a new Washington,
for a new America full of energy and dynamism and ready to lead the world.

I believe in my heart that the American family is the soul of this nation, and that if
the political class would stop interfering, we could build a family-friendly America.

I believe that the time-honored American values of hope, opportunity, family,
faith and community are the moral bedrock of our nation and every action by Washington
should be judged by one and only one criterion: does it help or hurt those values?

Does it create stronger communities, stronger families? Does it create more
opportunity, greater security, greater faith in the future?

The career politicians here in Washington, unaware of the fantastic growth
waiting to burst forth in our economy, spend their time dividing up an ever shrinking pie.
They take from one group in order to dole out favors to others, undermining our trust in
the basic fairness of the American system and causing division, envy and bitterness. In
order to get their way, they libel the good American people with accusations of racism,
sexism and selfishness. And then they wonder why politics has turned into such a nasty
business.

And they do this all in the guise of compassion. It reminds me of that old saying
that the ten most frightening words in the English language are “I’m from the
Government and I’m here to help you.”

America needs to take a new road, one toward an expansion future that is bigger
and better than our past. That’s why I’m proposing today, and will be talking about
throughout my campaign, a liberation movement to take power away from Washington
and put it in the hands of the people. A “Boston Tea Party,” if you will, that puts an end
to the taxing and spending party in Washington, DC. I mean to free the mighty American
economy from political repression.

The first element is dramatic pro-growth tax cuts.
I’m not talking “revenue neutral” fiddling with the tax code, the usual game in

Washington that pretends to cut some taxes while raising others. And I’m not talking
about fiddling around the “margins” cutting taxes that only help the well-to-do.
