@TINZ :o save a AN SyMeM whats so sompucates Mat 28 min caxpayess.

Tomemces an Tarstcn

Camprenensive tax ceform--with dramatic simplification and @ postcard return for most
Flers--is c.early the most eective way to end the abusive power of the IRS. There are other
wruch could be taken as weil, inati i

pine Sem ser bur

1. Establish a one-year tax amnesty period as part of a transition to a new tax system.
Individuals would be permitted to pay back taxes without penalty or interest charges.

2. Shi& the burden of proof in [RS audits from the individual to the federal government

Americans who are audited are currently presumed guilty until they prove themselves
innocent. This should be reversed.

uw

End life-style audits (except in cases where there is clear evidence of criminal
activity). A life-style audit is the practice whereby the IRS requires taxpayers to
document their style of living in minute detail to determine whether their reported
income is sufficient to support that lifestyle. Under this type of audit, taxpayers can
de questioned about a wide range of personal subjects—from how often they go out :o

dinnes. to where they spent their summer vacation, to which school their children
arend, d

4. Eliminate IRS filing for 40 million low- and middle-income taxpayers. Taxpayers
with only wage income and less than $250 in investment income would no longer be
required to file a tax retum. All of their taxes would be collected through
withholding.

5. Shi& [RS personnel and resources to the front-end of the tax filing process rather chan
the back-end. [RS employees should be dedicaced to helping American taxpayers ‘lie
their returns correctly, not simply waiting unc they make a mistake and then
pouncing on them with an audit. The [RS should be on the side of the taxpayer—
helping individuais comply with the law, not just punishing ther for being unable to
Higure out an incomprehensible tax system.

i__ EDUCATION AND JOB TRAINING REFORM

As we enter a new century. it is obvious that the opportunities of tomorrow will be
created in America’s classrooms and science labs. Education is the single greacest force for
improving opportunity from one generation to the next. The value of education. training, and
other human capital is no less important than chat of machines and other physical capital.
