HMO Refuses to Pay for Life Saving Surgery

on “es mY Ne $
Kags

since ae
Betty Woolfson, Grandmother, :

HMO enrollees who get an outside doctor's opinion had b:
medical help they need. So far, a dispute between outside
cost our family more than $15,000 in legal fees. My mot
surgery that has already been postponed three times becz

The dispute between my mother and her HMO arose whe
course of treatment that world-renowned neurosurgeon:
endanger her life. We wanted a second opinion because
diameter of a golf ball that is calcified and brittle and ful
blind in one eye. At any time she could completely lose }
die.
The estimated cost for the surgery and treatment UCLA
Advance payment is required. UCLA doctors believe m
surgery must be performed as soon possible.
Initially mw ™om’s HMO sta

t i ae pr
i a. “Nie

a

pp:
owe

HMO Casualty of the Day

September 27, 1996

le most critical health

9g

atient Protection Act is the sin

example for the rest of

year for California, and is an

— RALPH Naver

ee ee

roposition 216 — the Patient Protection Act — is the product of a unique col-
laboration between consumer, advocates and those who know first hand the

need for better patient care: registered nurses.

The official proponents of the Patient Protection Act are Rose Ann DeMoro, exec-
utive director of the California Nurses Association, and consumer advocate Harvey
Rosenfield, director of the Foundation for Taxpayer and Consumer Rights. Together
they have formed Consumers and Nurses for Patient Protection, and have placed
the Ralph Nader-endorsed initiative on the November ballot.

The California Nurses Association is the state’s largest professional association of
Registered Nurses. Its “Patient Watch” campaign has earned international praise
for focusing attention on the excesses of managed care and their impact on the

lives and health of patients.

Rosenfield, a public interest lawyer and consumer advocate, was the author and
sponsor of the landmark auto and liability insurance reform Proposition 103,
enacted by California voters in 1988. Rosenfield also founded Consumers for

Quality Care, a health care watchdog organization working at the state and
national level for quality health care.

“Nurses who are on the front line of patient care 24 hours a day see the growing ero-
sion of safe standards by an industry that is blinded by the untold wealth it is making.
Nurses see the human wreckage of a system, where safe, compassionate care is contin-
ually compromised. Nurses turned out in unprecedented numbers to demand change.”
— KIT COSTELLO, PRESIDENT, CALIFORNIA NURSES ASSOCIATION

“Tt’s important that physicians feel free to recommend the treatment necessary for indi-
vidual patients without the fear of being terminated by an HMO because the recom-
mended treatment may be too costly. Physicians in some cases are being required to
practice as a business, like AT&T or any other corporation that looks first at the bottom
line, rather than as a helping profession. This law will help ensure that physicians can
continue to advocate for their patient’s best care and treatment.”

— D. JOYCE SUTTON, MD, UNION OF AMERICAN PHYSICIANS AND DENTISTS

“Under the influence of large conglomerates, the quality of health care is being com-
promised. I’m excited about this initiative. The consumer board will give people a
voice we don’t have now. A lot of seniors feel forced to enter HMOs and powerless to
do anything about it. This initiative will give us a choice to have our voices heard.”
— JIM FORSYTH, PRESIDENT, REGION 3, CALIFORNIA CONGRESS OF SENIORS

“Passing the Patient Protection Act is the single most critical health care battle this

year for California, and is an example for the rest of the nation.”
: ; — RALPH NADER

Kathy Olsen plays with Steven,
her 5-year old son, disabled after
an injury was misdiagnosed due
to suspected cost-cutting, and a
severe brain abcess left him blind
and gravely mentally disabled.

