NO ON PROPOSITION 213 - CONSUMERS AGAINST NO FAULT
2110 K Street, Suite 14, Sacramento, CA 95916 (916) 444-0748

RE: ENDORSEMENT REQUEST

Dear Community Leader:

We are writing state leaders such as yourself in order to request your support in defeating a dangerous proposition,
Proposition 213, This measure is being offered by Insurance Commissioner Quackenbush as a gift to the
insurance industry for their almost singular support of his run for statewide office, donating over $2.5 million
dollars to his campaign to regulate their industry. This is political payback.

Ostensibly, this proposition addresses a supposed loophole in the law, which 213 supporters claim allows certain
classes of felons to sue for tort damages. This proposition would limit such individuals, along with convicted
drunk drivers, to recovering only actual expenses if they are involved in an auto accident, regardless of fault.
Opponents of 213 point out that most felons are already barred from recovery, these types of cases are extremely
rare, and even then, juries almost never grant tort awards to these types of plaintiffs. There are better ways to

punish felons and drunk drivers. This is overkill.

The third class of persons limited by the proposition would be uninsured drivers. In this provision of the proposed
law, the working poor, elderly, students, and minority communities, are targeted to be denied full access to our

system of legal justice, regardless of fault, merely on the basis of financial status. By limiting recovery to money
already spent, the poor are denied the means to obtain legal counsel to:negotiate on their behalf. This is unfair.

Without the means to afford professional legal representation, these innocent persons will be fodder for the
insurance industry defense attorneys, who will use all of their vast resources to limit the amount recovered for
medical care. If the insurance companies do not pay for the full harm caused by their clients, who will? YOU,
ME, THE TAXPAYERS. Or, worse yet, these individuals -- injured because of a negligent driver -- will not

receive needed medical treatment. This is immoral.

What makes 213 so dangerous, is the hidden agenda of the insurance industry--a no fault profit windfall-- is buried
under a pile of bile so odious, that most people don't get past the drunk drivers and felons to the real purpose of the

supporters; increased profits for insurance companies. This is why we need your help.

Your help is greatly appreciated, and much needed, to defeat this dangerous proposition. Please sign and
return the enclosed endorsement form as soon as you can. We are available to answer any questions which your

board may have regarding this initiative, call us any time.
Thank you,

Ina De Long, Campaign Chair Dana Mitchell, Campaign Coordinator
