Campaign to Defeat 209

Co-Sponsored by National & State Business, Labor and Community Organizations

PROPOSITION 209 DEVASTATES EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
FOR CALIFORNIANS

CLAUSE A OF PROPOSITION 209

Proposition 209 is a proposed Constitutional amendment which would end affirmative action, outreach, counseling,
and recruitment programs in public employment, education, and contracting.

Clause A of Proposition 209 states:
(a) The state shall not discriminate against, or grant preferential treatment to, any individual or
group on the basis of race, sex, color, ethnicity, or national origin in the operation of public
employment, public education, or public contracting. Prop. 209 (a).

EFFECTS ON THE CALIFORNIA CONSTITUTION

As an amendment, Proposition 209 would change the law so that its language is the standard and as such this
proposed constitutional amendment directly impacts both the Equal Protection Clause of Article I $7 and the
protection from discrimination found in Article I §8, significantly changing their meaning.
HOW CALIFORNIANS ARE EFFECTED
A. Studies on the effects of Proposition 209
le The Independent California Legislative Analyst finds the following programs will be effected:
This measure would affect a variety of public school and community college programs such as

counseling, tutoring, outreach, student financial aid, and financial aid to selected schools districts. ..’
Legislative Analyst’s Office, 7/18/96 at 3.

7

Re Western State University Study written by Professor Neil Gotanda finds:

Professor Gotanda analysis concludes that Proposition 209 will eliminate curricular programs and
women’s and ethnic studies units including material on:

e The Holocaust es
e Japanese Concentration Camps
e Armenian genocide

Professor Gotanda also found that a large number of programs fall within the scope
of Proposition 209's prohibitions and these programs are at risk:

e University and college programs for women’s studies and ethnic studies

e Battered women’s shelters

Campaign to Defeat 209
es CAce

S. TA. S053 © (213) 782-1 14d 0 Fax (21

