j

y AN President Clinton and the Democratic Party...
d ‘06

Working Hard To Reform Health Insurance

Families Should Be Able To Hold On To Their Health Insurance
Even If They Change or Lose Their Jobs

No One Should Be Denied Coverage Because of a “Pre-Existing Condition”
President Clinton and the Democratic Party want to help working families by passing a common-
sense, bipartisan health care reform bill, called the Kennedy-Kassebaum bill, that will give people
some security if they get sick or injured. It says you shouldn’t have to lose your insurance just
because you get sick or change jobs. It stops insurance companies from denying people coverage
because of so-called “pre-existing conditions,” and it makes it easier for small business to provide
coverage for their employees.

Business and Labor Support Health Insurance Reform
It’s a simple bill. It has the support of organized labor and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
Extremists in the House are threatening to kill the bill. Why? Because the same big insurance
companies are afraid it’ll cut into their profits. So just because insurance companies and their
lobbyists have given millions in campaign contributions to a handful of GOP extremists, millions
of Americans could go without even basic health care, and that just isn’t right.

Kennedy-Kassebaum is Common Sense Health Insurance Reform
The important reforms in the Kennedy-Kassebaum bill will help to ease the concerns of middle
class families facing the prospect of getting their health coverage cut off unfairly, without costing
tax payers a dime. No sensible person thinks that it is right to deny people coverage only because
they change jobs and happen to have a so-called pre-existing condition.

President Clinton and the Democratic Party support the Kennedy-Kassebaum bill, which, if
enacted, would address this problem head on. Although the bill is estimated to benefit 25 million
Americans who now have trouble getting access to health insurance, it is strongly opposed by the
extremists in the GOP and their special interest backers.

Issue Paper No. 2 June 1996

DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE

430 South Capitol Strect, S.E. © Washington, D.C. 20003 ¢ 202.863.8000 « hetp://www.democrats.org
