WIN President Clinton and the Democratic Party...

96
Building a Healthy, Sound Economy for
America’s Hard Working Fi amilies

Thanks to President Clinton our economy is growing at a healthy rate. Driven by solid
growth in the job producing private sector, this is the second largest economic expansion
since WWII. Because of President Clinton’s sound economic strategy, America’s economy
is back on track.

Growth Up! Gross Domestic Product (GDP) increased at an annual rate of 2.8% in the
first quarter of 1996. This is a very solid performance. These numbers are great considering
that we had an automobile strike and a blizzard in the first quarter.

Jobs Up! Employment increased by another 600,000 in the first quarter of 1996 — bringing
the total jobs created during the Clinton Administration to 8.7 million. Ninety three percent
of the jobs were created in the private sector. Two-thirds of the job growth during the
Clinton Administration has been in high-wage jobs.

Wages Up! Wages grew at their highest rate in nearly five years.

Private Sector Growth Up! Growth in the job-creating private sector has been
particularly strong. The private sector grew at an annual rate of 3% during the first quarter
of 1996 and is up 3.2% during the Clinton Administration. This growth rate is stronger than
both the Bush and Reagan Administrations. As the Clinton Administration continues to
downsize the federal goverment, private sector growth has been a healthy 3.2%.

Manufacturing Up! The National Association of Purchasing Managers Index is back
above the 50 level — indicating solid growth in the manufacturing sector.

Investment Up! The growth and expansion in the economy is led by investment.
Investment is up 14.5% for the first quarter, and 11% since President Clinton took office.
This is the best rate of investment growth since the Kennedy Administration.

Consumer Confidence Up! Consumer confidence reached its highest level in six years
in April. Consumption was also up 3.5% in the first quarter.
‘This is plain and simple good news for the American economy
and more evidence that the President’s economic strategy is paying off.”
Dr. Laura Tyson, National Economic Advisor

Issue Paper No. 5 June 1996

DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE

430 South Capitol Strcct, S.E. © Washington, D.C. 20003 ° 202.863.8000  http://www.democrats.org
