Scott Schreiber...
A Leader From Our Communi.

Scott Schreiber's roots in the 23rd State Senate District . Some
sixty years ago, Scott's maternal grandmother, Hilda Kestner, a
Russian-born Jewish immigrant who fled Czarist tyranny (and is still
going strong today at age 92!), came to California to forge a better life.

Two decades later, Scott Schreiber was born in the District. Scott
observed his Bar Mitzvah at Temple Aliyah and pitched for a winning
Little League team that included future Major League-great Robin
Yount. After a typical adolescence spent enjoying Santa Monica Beach,
hiking and riding horses in Topanga Canyon, and cruising Westwood
Village, Beverly Hills, the Farmer's Market, and, of course, Hollywood,
Scott graduated from Taft High School in Woodland Hills in 1972.

Scott worked his way through college as a camp counselor providing
inner-city youth with the chance to reorient their lives in a more
positive direction. Scott also volunteered for the City of Hope, of which
Scott's father, Harry, is a Past-President of the Westside Chapter.

Meanwhile, Scott found time to pursue his hobby - music. A promising
guitarist, Scott headlined at various restaurants and clubs in the area
including the now-famous Great American Food & Beverage Company
on Wilshire Blvd. in Santa Monica. An outstanding college student,
Scott received his B.A. degree from the University of California at
Santa Barbara while supporting himself by working three arduous part-
time jobs.

Over the past twenty years, Scott has built a distinguished business
career in middle and senior management with companies recognized
within their industries as innovative leaders. Scott is also a successful
entrepreneur and small-business owner as well as a former executive
member of the American Marketing Association.

Dedicated to his community, Scott has continually taken a leading role
in both business and local issues. Some of his activities include Past-
Chair of Small Business Opportunity Day, a program designed to assist
women and minority business owners to secure contracts with large
companies and government agencies. (Incidentally, Scott's mother,
Myrna, is a senior partner in a highly acclaimed all-female law firm.) In
addition, Scott serves as a Board Member of Kids Safe, an organization
dedicated to protecting children from sexual predators.

On a personal level, Scott is married to Sue, a corporate, C.F.O. They
have a fourteen-year old son, Justin. Today, Scott Schreiber, candidate
for State Senate, is strongly committed to revitalizing California so that
all our children will be able to pursue the same abundant opportunities
and enjoy the highest quality of life that had once attracted Scott's
grandmother, Hilda Kesmer, those many years ago.

Scott Schreiber for State Senate
