Brad Sherman.

Commissioner Brad Sherman, representing
the State of California, signs the memorial

book for Prime Minister Yitzak Rabin at the
Israeli consulate.

Retiring Congressman Tony Beilenson
strongly supports Brad Sherman to
succeed him in Congress.

BRAD SHERMAN

DEMOCRAT for CONGRESS

Proven leadership for our community.

The qualifications to be a great Congressman.

Democrat Brad Sherman is a leader our community can
be proud of. An honors graduate of UCLA and Harvard
Law School, Brad Sherman represented individual
taxpayers and small businesses as a CPA. As a member
of the Board of California Common Cause, Brad Sherman
was a champion for campaign reform.

Serving on the State Board of Equalization, Brad stopped
a billion dollar tax grab by foreign-owned multi-national
corporations. He re-wrote state tax codes to encourage
high salary manufacturing jobs, and led the fight against
Pete Wilson’s unfair “Snack Tax.”

A commitment to our issues.

Brad Sherman’s commitment to our community begins
with his family. His father was President of Temple Bat
Yahm in Orange County, where his mother now serves on
the Board. Brad Sherman, a stalwart friend of Israel, is a
founding Vice-President of Democrats for Israel. He also
is a member of The Guardians of the Jewish Home for the
Aging and Valley Jewish Business Jewish Leaders.

As our next member of Congress, Brad Sherman will fight
to stop Republican efforts to sell off the Santa Monica
Mountains to developers. He will protect Social Security
and Medicare and work to expand educational
opportunities. Brad Sherman supports the President’s
proposal to put 100,000 more police on patrol and will
work for sensible gun control laws.

Endorsed by our community leaders

¢ Dianne Feinstein U.S. Senator

¢ Barbara Boxer U.S. Senator

¢ Tony Beilenson U.S. Congress

¢ Howard Berman U.S. Congress

¢ Henry Waxman U.S. Congress

¢ Mel Levine U.S. Congress (Ret)

¢ Herschel Rosenthal California State Senate
¢ Barbara Friedman California State Assembly
e Richard Katz California State Assembly

¢ Marvin Braude Los Angeles City Council

e Laura Chick Los Angeles City Council

¢ Michael Feuer Los Angeles City Council

e Julie Korenstein Los Angeles School Board
¢ Zev Yaroslavky Los Angeles Supervisor

© <p 25
