- in urban areas vacant spaces in neighboring parks are virtually non-existent,
therefore, the mobilehomes cannot be moved;

- even though these homes are still called "mobile", a term coined in the 1950’s,
as a practical matter the modern mobilehome is immobile;® therefore, when
mobilehome space rents are increased it is common that the mobilehome owner
must either pay the higher rent, abandon the mobilehome, or move out of the
metropolitan area.

While California law does not control mobilehome space rents, the state has declared that
mobilehome owners require special protection. The California Civil Code states that:

The legislature finds and declares that, because of the high cost of moving
mobilehomes, the potential damage resulting therefrom, the requirements relating to the
installation of mobilehomes, and the cost of landscaping or lot preparation, it is
necessary that the owners of the mobilehomes ... be provided with the unique
protection from actual or constructive eviction. (Civil Code Sec. 798.55(a))

One federal court opinion contains the following description of mobilehome space rentals.

Mobile homes, despite their name, are not usually mobile. Once placed in a park, few
are moved. This is principally due to the cost of moving a coach which is often equal
to or greater than the value of the coach itself. Also, many mobile home parks will not
accept older coaches so that after a time, the coaches may be rendered effectively
immobile. Thus the park owner, absent regulation, theoretically has the power to exact
a premium from the tenant who, as a practical matter, cannot move the coach.”

Since the introduction of city and county mobilehome space rent control laws, the cost of their
implementation and annual administration has been a subject of public discussion. Literature that
has been widely distributed by the park owners’ association, claims that the mobilehome rent
control programs cost $45 million a year. However, this claim is not backed by actual data.

§ The following findings, which are contained in the San Luis Obispo County Mobilehome rent control
ordinance, are typical among mobilehome rent ordinances:

(a) There is presently within the county ... a shortage of spaces for the location of existing
(c) Because of the high cost and impracticability of moving mobilehomes, the potential for damage
reduction resulting therefrom, the requirements relating to the installation of mobilehomes,
including ... landscaping and site preparation ... it is necessary to protect the owners and
occupiers of mobilehomes from unreasonable rent increases ... (San Luis Obispo County, Title
25, Section 25.01.010 (1988).

u Adamson Companies v. City of Malibu, 854 F.Supp.1476, 1481 (1994, U.S. District Court).
2
