to employers are estimated at $8,000 per employee.

We also need to employ people in a dramatic expansion of
health care services. Medical equipment is one of our fastest
growing industries, and nursing is a growth occupation of
the future. More important, we will need primary care and
geriatric specialists and a whole variety of “alternative”
approaches to wellness.

An alternative agriculture based on organic diversity and
Sustainability is beginning to develop in California.
According to the National Academy of Sciences, the loss of
genetic diversity in our food system represents the single
greatest threat to our food supply, a repetition on a global
scale of the 19th century Irish potato famine that propelled
my ancestors to this country. The narrow band of favored
hybrid seed stocks favored by traditional agribusiness relies
on high inputs of petrochemical fertilizers which have
radically degraded the “ecological capitol” of our soil and
water. Turning to organic gardening, organic farming and
the promotion of genetic diversity are necessary to our
survival and sustainability.

Tourism employs ten percent of the global workforce.
California can no longer assume that its position as a global
tourism magnet will go unchallenged. Without restoring
our environment and turning our diversity into a strength,
however, we will continue to see travelers choosing other
destinations, as long as they ‘hear reports of California's
polluted coastlines.

The transition to the Ecological Era is beginning. There are
70,000 new environmental businesses in America, largely
without support from government or the tax structure. Our
entire tax structure needs to be overhauled in the direction

10 Politics of the Spirit - A Dream of California

of “green taxes” in the coming decade. Currently we tax
people on their income or payrolls, while we subsidize gas-
guzzling cars, throwaway consumption and toxic pollution.
California is one of the few states that does not even have a
severance tax on its dwindling supplies of oil. We need to .
stop taxing people for using their personal energy at work
and start taxing people for wasting finite fossil fuel energy.

The fourth message of my dream is that we cannot achieve
the great transition to an educated, multicultural,
ecological society without ending the Machiavellian
politics of the Special Interest State.

For 500 years, as my friend Matthew Fox points out, Western
politics has been in the thrall of Machiavelli’s advice to the
prince on governing the nation-state. Machiavelli’s advice
was that politics is not about justice but about interests. “The
fact is,” Machiavelli wrote, “that a (politician) who wants
to act virtuously in every way necessarily comes to grief
among so many who are not virtuous.”

It is noteworthy that Daniel Bell, who in the 1960s wrote a -
book extolling the “end of ideology” as’a source of stability,
has now written that corruption and greed are the deepest
problems facing democracy after the Cold War. “In almost
every society, the distrust of the political order and of
politicians is rising, often feeding reactionary forces that
seek to channel the resentments of a population into religious
fundamentalism or rising nationalism,” Bell writes.
Machiavellian politics, based on the primacy of means over
ends, is creating the conditions of its own demise by breeding
deepening public distrust.

Nevertheless, Machiavelli’s counsel to use deception, guile
and appearances has reached a manipulative crescendo in

Politics of the Spirit - A Dream of California 11
