Coalition Against 1201 K Street, Suite 1150

Sa to, CA 95814
Unfair Attorneys’ Fees 916-449-4900 "Fax 916-449-4906
NO ON PROPOSITION 207
For Immediate Release Contact: John H. Sullivan or
July 15, 1996 Mike Carpenter

(916)443-4900

Proposition 207 Opposed By Coalition Against Unfair Attorneys’ Fees
Consumers Would Lose Protections Against Unreasonable Attorney Fees
Sacramento, CA...The Coalition Against Unfair Attorneys’ Fees, a broad-based coalition, today

announced its opposition to Proposition 207 on the November ballot that would block the
Legislature from controlling unreasonable attorney’s fees.

“This measure is nothing more than an attempt by California trial lawyers to protect their
bountiful fee system at the expense of consumers,” said John H. Sullivan, president of the
Association for California Tort Reform and chair of the Coalition Against Unfair Attorney’s Fees.
“The trial lawyers are hoping to trick voters into believing that this measure is a restriction on
frivolous lawsuits. But the sponsors of this proposition are the very same people who file these
lawsuits.”

The State Legislative Analyst and Department of Finance both state that most of Proposition 207
provisions “essentially maintain existing law and practice.”

“These provisions were added purely as a smoke screen in an attempt to make the initiative
appear attractive to voters,” said Martyn B. Hopper, state director, National Federation of
Independent Business/California.

Buried within the initiative is the trial lawyers’ golden nugget--the clause that would let a personal
injury trial lawyer continue to take huge percentages of injured victims’ money, no matter how
little work he or she does on a case.

“Proposition 207 must be defeated or else the Legislature will be forever prohibited from
protecting people from unfair, one-sided fee agreements written by lawyers,” said Assemblyman
Bill Morrow, Chairman of the Assembly Judiciary Committee. “Trial lawyers will be free to write
their own ticket from then on.”

Not only would Proposition 207 make it more difficult to prevent frivolous lawsuits; it weakens a
judge’s ability to control frivolous suits could also discourage judges from cracking down on
frivolous cases.

“T’m confident that voters will see right through this deceptive, self-serving measure and defeat it
in November,” added Sullivan.

HH

Paid for by Coalition Against Unfair Attorneys’ Fees, No on Proposition 207, CA |.D.#96770
