owners are trying to sell their rent gouging initiative to voters as some form of
"rental assistance."

But in fact, this fraudulent initiative would wipe out your rent increase

ion and leave you at the mercy of park owners. In Los Angeles County,
where the rent control ordinance recently expired, some mobilehome owners have
reported rent increases of $70 to $380 a month!

The park owners who have put this initiative on the ballot call themselves
"Californians for Mobilehome Fairness."

But there's nothing fair about the Mobilehome Eviction Initiative.

We cannot allow greedy park owners to drive mobilehome owners
from their homes! We must mount a strong campaign to stop. _-
them and te preserve the rights of park residents in California.

We won't defeat the Mobilehome Eviction Initiative if we sit back and do
nothing between now and March of next year.

The park owners know that they'll have to mount a strong campaign, and they
will. We can't afford to risk losing this initiative.

Tit cabs i hi fe

GSMOL is making the defeat of this dangerous initiative our top priority. We
are already hard at work on the opposition campaign.

The park owners have already spent more than half a million dollars to qualify
their initiative for the ballot. They hired paid signature gatherers who misled people
into signing the petitions.

They will spend millions more to try to pass it by hirifig high-priced political
consultants to wage a campaign of lies and distortions. They'll try to fool voters into
thinking that their initiative would actually help mobilehome residents.

In an outrageous attempt to fool you, they've sent letters to mobilehome owners
saying that "Mobilehome rent control has been a complete failure in California."

: The park owners must think we're not very smart: don't they realize that we
like rent control because it keeps our rent down? |

GSMOL doesn't need millions of dollars to defeat the park owners. That's
because we have the facts on our side, and past results show that we can win.

GSMOL has retained professional campaign consultants of our own, and I'm
proud to say that they have successful track records in initiative campaigns and
expertise in rent control efforts. They want badly to help us defeat this initiative. -

We are planning major public education, media, and get-out-the-vote
campaigns. We will produce commercials, visit newspaper editorial boards, produce
and distribute flyers and brochures -- in short, sie lll acat simile dia cata,
