The Republican Party:

The
Beginning.

. -. [0 do for a community of people whatever they
need to have done, but.cannot do at all, or cannot so
well do, for themselves, in their separate and individual
capacities. In all that the people can individually do as
well for themselves, government ought not to interfere.

Abraham Lincoin

It is this simple philosophy on which the Republican
Party was founded.

The year was 1854. The Democrats and Whigs were
the leading political parties, and the Free Soilers hadre-
cently gained enough strength to place candidates for
election.

men who met that night in that small farming community
were Democrats, Whigs, and Free Soilers. They were
brought together by a common belief - slavery was un-
constitutional.

Out of that meeting came a resolution: A new party,
to be named the Republican Party, would be formed if
the Kansas-Nebraska bill passed.

The first Republican convention was held in Jackson,

Mich., on July 6, 1854. The crowd was so great, it could
not be held in the town’s largest hall. The business of the
Party had to be conducted in a grove of oaks near the
County race track. These resolutions signaled the formal
beginning of the new national party:

RESOLVED, That. .. in view of the imminent danger
that Kansas and Nebraska will be grasped by Slavery,
and a thousand miles of slave soil will be thus inter.
Posed between the free States of the Atlantic and those
of the Pacific, we will act cordially and faithtully in
unison to avert and repeal this gigantic wrong and
shame.

RESOLVED, That in view of the necessity of battling
for the first principles of Republican govemment, and
against the schemes of an aristocracy, the most revol-
Ing and oppressive with which the earth was ever
cursed or man debased, we will cooperate and be

. known as “Republicans” until the contest be termi-
nated.

Under the label “Republican” or “anti-Nebraska,” the

Party made significant inroads that fall in its first test at the
polis, winning 11 United States Senate seats. With the
help of the “anti Nebraskans,” the new party was able to
Control and organize the House. Republican tickets were
In office in Michigan and Wisconsin.

By 1856, the Republican Party was organized nation-
ally. State delegates

appointed a National Executive

Committee which was authorized to call a national nomi-

nating convention that June in Philadelphia.
It was only a short time before the
Senate approved the bill. It was law - Pro eee Let Volunteer Today! Se

the extension of slavery was a real

threat. Major Bovay called a.second | [1 Call on neighbore
% lo Wil be Canvasser

On March 20, 53 local citizens gath- |
ered in the schoothouse in Ripon. |
From their number they appointed a |
Committee of five to form the new party. jo
The local Free Soil and Whig organiza- ja
tions were dissolved.

Work at headquarters

C1 Register Republicans

Will Telephone

Distribute campaign materiais

The RepublicanTeam
Volunteer
Sign-Up Card

The Ripon meetings were only the 2 Host a reception or tea Name.

first of many that year. In Michigan, CO Distribute (Ak 2 5 LEA SESE eee een eee pe

lowa, Ohio, Maine, Massachusetts, | spheam Clty, Zip

New York and other Northem states, ; © Putyard sign in yard

citizens of similar persuasion met to | O Werk on Election Day Colne

form Republican . 10 Raise funds Phone-Day(__)

Your Republican HQ: ld Sete nemeioion of PANINI lis
ja Other, Commotite. 32 ee

| Califormia Republican Party- 1903 W. Magnolia Bivd., Burbank, CA 91508
