Campaign to Defeat 209

Co-Sponsored by National & State Business, Labor and Community Organizations

PROPOSITION 209'S DEVASTATING EFFECT ON
WOMEN IN CALIFORNIA

There are almost 14 million women in California. The disastrous effect of Proposition 209 on the women of
California is two-fold.

e First, it threatens to ban equal opportunity affirmative action programs which have protected women
from discrimination in public employment, education and contracting. Threatening the advances
that women and girls have made in these different areas. Proposition 209 will eliminate outreach,
recruitment, mentoring, and tutoring programs in the state of California.

e Second, Proposition 209 goes even further by gutting gender discrimination laws which have given
California women the highest Constitutional protection from discrimination. In its place, Prop.209
leaves California women with the lowest possible protection under the law.

Currently, women are 47 percent of the state workforce,’ and almost 50 percent of the population of the
stare of California, yet they receive only 8.8 percent of state contracting dollars and are only 20 percent
of UC tenured faculty* at the same time they fill about 83 percent of the “administrative support” jobs.’
These facts, illustrate the continued concentration of women into lower wage jobs.

PROPOSITION 209 WILL HINDER THE ADVANCES WOMEN HAVE MADE IN BUSINESS
AND EMPLOYMENT

Proposition 209 threatens the ability of women-owned businesses to compete, closing the doors of
equal opportunity for California women.

° Proposition 209 will eliminate equal opportunity programs which require contractors to reach out to
women-owned companies for bids on large state contracting projects. State contractors will no
longer have to undertake efforts to recruit qualified women businesses, but will be able to go back to
using the same old companies they have always used.

e Currently, there is a 6.7 percent women participation rate in state contracts. In 1990, that rate was
2.3 percent.* This growth will decline without the equal opportunity programs that face extinction
under Proposition 209.

Ending state equal opportunity programs will threaten the continued growth in employment

opportunities. Maps -LIBRARY (MGI)- Renae
4nd Government Information
AUG 20 1998
‘California Research Bureau, Overview on Affirmative Action, 1995. UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA ee

r LOS ANGELES
California Senate Office of Research, The Status of Affirmative Action in California, March 1995 at 43.
Gener al Services Reports, 1994 Data.

Caraptign to De‘z

ww
