In another PIRG case in Missouri, the federal court ruled:

"The limits are not closely drawn to reduce corruption or the appearance of
corruption associated with large campaign contributions.... Accordingly, we conclude
that the Proposition A contribution limits unconstitutionally burden the First
Amendment rights of association and expression."

Our coalition raised these issues before the court rulings last year. Here's CALPIRG's pollster's reply:

"The clearest, simplest way to convince voters you are getting the big money out of
politics is to offer them an unadorned $100 contribution limit....In California,
however, even the most popular campaign reform----$100 limits---is a tougher sell.
Only 56% in California support even a $100 limit---the most popular of all the
contribution spending limit proposals we tested."*

Special Interest Contributions-

There are special interests and then there are special interests. Not surprisingly, some of CALPIRG's
most important backers, the California Teachers Association and Service Employees International
Union, are treated more favorably under CALPIRG's "tough" initiative than they are in the coalition-
sponsored measure which slaps a flat $25,000 cap on the aggregate contributions which can be given
to politicians.

While CALPIRG is quick to point out that its initiative bans direct contributions from unions and
corporations, they blush a little at the details surrounding their creation of Citizens Contribution
Committees (CCCs). Under their measure, the Service Employee International Union would be able
to contribute 10 times more to politicians than our California Political Reform Initiative (CPR) allows;
and 100 times more than what an individual is allowed to give under the CALPIRG reforms. Simply
stated, the most glaring difference between CALPIRG's initiative and ours is their conscious refusal
to slap a uniform cap on the aggregate contributions any union or corporation CCC can give.

Did CALPIRG Intentionally Place An Unconstitutional Measure on the Ballot?

Yes and no. As mentioned before, the Buckley Case was decided in 1976. CALPIRG intentionally
chose to just ignore the obvious limitations the Court imposed on campaign reform measures to
prevent First Amendment violations. When confronted by reporters about its illegality, they dismiss
the question. They claim that when a court throws out their mandatory spending limits, voluntary
limits similar to ours are triggered.

Not quite. CALPIRG's voluntary spending limits are so low and they lack any real incentives which
could persuade any candidate to voluntarily accept them.

The cases on restrictions on out-of-district contributions and $100 limits all came in after CALPIRG

was locked into constitutionally flawed provisions. Nevertheless, when faced with the clear direction
of these court cases and the coalition-sponsored measure, they chose to go ahead with a campaign

3°) Carver v... Nixon (1995) 72° Pesdmoeer

° op.cit., Bannon memo.
