Link Between Campaign
Contributions, Trash Franchise.

accused of receiv-
been accused 0 \
olland hea
a ae “ ing favored treatment In
staff Writer 2 ee
a leading Torrance other South Bay ¢
e lea ; oe
ty Council advocate of and its pee akan
: 1 exclusive city About $4,000 ot We :
f one sy came last Nov.
O cue for commercial money one eae
; i é 5, a mo 2
trash hauling received and : a 2 pe ce
5, i rged a sta y
( i campaign urge iE
$6,000 in cat 2 ce
contributions from a_ trash pan = cee
refuse company since The stuc Be
i "1983 trative Specialist = he
ate 1905. geen
: incilman Dan Walker J. Roundtree sa ae
ou @ 2 Ro
-eceived the funds from franchising ee
w rn Waste Industries, escalate trash co : =
; Whe o enate
Los Angeles strip- rates and aliena
a Los g

ased com yar hat has yusiness C ymmunity
based CO any usiness CC u

This investigation in the Daily Breeze
blew open the relationship between Dan

Walker and Western Waste.

In 1985, Torrance City Councilman Dan Walker made a startling proposal
to his colleagues. He insisted on giving a monopoly contract to the trash
hauling company Western Waste. Walker wanted Torrance to abandon its
free-market garbage collection policy, which allows businesses to use the

least expensive service, and replace it with a sweetheart deal for Western
Waste - without competitive bidding.

For over a year Dan Walker fought for his proposal tooth and nail. Even
though a city study concluded that garbage collection fees would go up

as much as 30% - and that service would deteriorate - Dan Walker kept
fighting for a Western Waste monopoly.

An investigation by the Daily Breeze revealed that Dan Walker was
receiving huge campaign contributions from Western Waste - $10,000
during the period Walker's proposal was being considered by the Council.

The people of Torrance rebelled against Walker’s actions. At a raucous
public hearing, scores of residents and business people denounced

Walker and his proposal. The City Council listened and voted to kill Walker's
trash monopoly plan — with Walker defending it to the last minute.

Realizing that his political future had been severely damaged, Walker
pledged “that no further trash industry contributions will be accepted by
my campaign.” But he broke his promise. In fact, Walker has taken far
more money from Western Waste after his promise than before.

Throughout the years, Walker has taken $29,300 from Western Waste -
they’re his largest campaign contributor.

