(iN #70 Years of Service ®
iCal-Tax

1926 - 1996

Proposition 217's Harmful Effects on Property Taxes

Proposition 217 contains language that could prevent any city, county or special district
from ever increasing its share of all property taxes collected in the county. This would
harm development of projects important to growing communities by limiting the payback
local agencies could rely upon from approving new projects. That payback is
necessary to fund public safety and other services required by new housing and
commercial development. It would also limit the ability of local agencies and their
citizens to restructure local governments, change boundaries, annex territory, or lower
property tax rates.

Specifically, the proposition would not permit any local agency to be allocated a lower
share of property tax than “the corresponding proportionate share for those Local
agencies for the 1995-96 fiscal year.” (Section 3 of the initiative, adding Revenue and
Taxation Code Section 97.42). The initiative’s author has said he merely intended to
prevent future shifts of property taxes by the state; however, the measure’s language is
so sweeping that it would actually lock in, at the 1995-96 level, each agency’s share of
all property tax collected in the county.

Both the Attorney General’s Office and a trial judge agreed that this language could
freeze individual local agencies’ shares of property taxes at the proportion of
countywide property tax that each agency collected in 1995-96.

Consequences of the property tax freeze:

¢ Fast-growing cities would lose their fair share of property taxes. Under current
law, if a city’s assessed value grows faster than other jurisdictions in its county (e.g.,
because of new residential or commercial development or simply from faster
property appreciation), the fast-growing city naturally receives a greater percentage
share of countywide property taxes. This is not to say that the slower-growing
jurisdictions actually lose revenue -- simply that their percentage of countywide
property tax is smaller, because the countywide total increases by growth
concentrated in other parts of the county.

The payback from increased property taxes is necessary for local jurisdictions to
approve new residential and commercial development. If, as Proposition 217 would
require, the agency receives no increased revenue from new development, it cannot
pay for the added infrastructure and public services required by the newly
developing area.

September 4, 1996
