TEEN SMOKING

| CRACKING DOWN ON TOBACCO SALES TO MINORS: “...
! Senator Dole and other Republicans continue to ignore volumes of medical
| research to make baffling claims that cigarettes are not addictive. They

| even argue with distinguished Republican experts like President Reagan’s

| Surgeon General C. Everett Koop. President Clinton and Vice President
Gore understand that we have a responsibility to protect our children’s
future by cracking down on illegal sales of tobacco to minors and by

i curbing sophisticated advertising campaigns designed to entice kids to start
smoking before they are old enough to make an informed decision.”

NO MENTION OF PROPOSAL TO CRACK DOWN ON MINOR’S
TOBACCO USE: “Responsible families mean less child abuse, lower

infant mortality, fewer unvaccinated youngsters, fewer teen pregnancies,
and less involvement with drugs, alcohol, and tobacco.”

OPENING THE DOORS OF DEMOCRACY: “After years of OPPOSE MOTOR VOTER: Calls Motor Voter“ ilJ-conceived” and an

Republican delay, Democrats passed and the President signed the Motor “invitation to ballot fraud.”
Voter Bill to make it easier for people to participate in our democracy and | ~ -
exercise their civic responsibility in the voting booth.”

IMMIGRATION

, OPPOSE DENYING EDUCATION TO CHILDREN: “We deplore SUPPORTS DENYING EDUCATION TO CHILDREN: “[President
those who use the need to stop illegal immigration as a pretext for Clinton) has opposed Proposition 187 in Califormia which 60 percent of
discrimination. And we applaud the wisdom of Republicans like Mayor Californians supported, and has opposed Republican efforts to ensure that
Giuliani and Senator Domenici who oppose the mean-spirited and short- non-citizens do not take advantage of expensive welfare programs. Unlike
| sighted effort of Republicans in Cangress to bar the children of illegal Bill Clinton, we stand with the American people on immigration policy and
immigrants from schools -- it is wrong, and forcing children onto the will continue to reform and enforce our immigration laws to ensure that
streets is an invitation for them to join gangs and tum to crime.” they reflect America's national interest ... [legal aliens should not receive
public benefits other than emergency aid, and those who become parents
while illegally in the United States should not be qualified to claim benefits
for their offspring.”

Paid for and authorized by the Democratic National Committee Mee,
