Proposing his Hope Scholarship plan to make the first two years of college as universal as
high school. All students would receive a $1,500 refundable tax credit for full-time
tuition in their first year and another $1,500 in the second year if they work hard, stay off
drugs, and earn at least a B average in their first year. This $1,500 credit would pay for
more than the full tuition cost at the average community college, making community
college free for most students;

Calling for a tax deduction of up to $10,000 per year for the cost of college tuition and
training. More than 17 million students and 14 million working families stand to benefit
from this proposal for tax relief to working families;

Proposing a dramatic expansion of the College Work Study program, increasing the number
of students involved in work study from 700,000 to more than | million over the next five
years. The President has challenged colleges to use additional work study funds to promote
public service and put students to work in the community;

Proposing the largest-ever merit-based scholarship program to reward the top 5 percent of
high school graduates with $1,000 grants toward the cost of college. If this proposal is
enacted this year, 128,500 graduating high school seniors will receive a scholarship to help
finance their college education;

Proposing a $2 billion, five-year Technology Literacy Challenge to link every classroom in
America to the Information Superhighway by the year 2000. The Challenge will stimulate
state, local, and private sector efforts to provide all children with greater opportunity to learn
the skills they need to thrive in the next century. The Technology Literacy Challenge will
ensure that local innovation keeps U.S. schools on the leading edge of learning technologies;

Proposing his “America Reads” Challenge to ensure that every child in American can read
independently by the end of the third grade. The President’s new initiative helps parents, as
their children’s first teachers, and the entire community, to invest in reading success. The
President and his Administration will mobilize 1 million community volunteer tutors, expand
Head Start, and challenge both the non-profit and private sectors to help our children read;

Supporting higher education standards for students and teachers. In order to ensure America's
competitive strength, President Clinton wants to see both public school students and teachers
challenged by meaningful, rigorous standards and rewarded when they perform;

Supporting public school choice. President Clinton believes that information, competition, .
and choice among public schools should be the rule, not the exception;

Calling for increased parental involvement in their children’s education. President Clinton
believes that parents are and should continue to be their children's first and most important
teachers. He is calling on all 50 states to pass laws to provide for the creation of charter
schools -- public schools created and managed by parents, teachers, and administrators to
provide greater flexibility;
