Opponents have also wrongfully claimed that all fire suppression assessments would end.
Nothing in Proposition 218 expressly prohibits fire suppression assessments. If a fire suppression
assessment district can be shown to provide special benefits to property within close proximity ofa
fire facility, then it may in fact meet the requirements of the act.

MYTH #4: Proposition 218 eliminates “Lifeline” services.
TRUTH: Proposition 218 does not eliminate or otherwise prohibit “Lifeline” services.

“Lifeline” rates for the elderly, disabled and the disadvantaged for telephone, gas and electric
services are NOT affected by Proposition 218. Fees for these services are outside the scope of the

measure.

Some communities have “lifeline” rates for water, sewer or garbage collection services. “Lifeline”
programs for these services will not be prohibited. The decision to provide “lifeline” services is
and will remain a discretionary policy decision made by local officials. Proposition 218 does not
preclude local governments from using existing tax dollars to finance “lifeline” programs, just like
taxpayer funds are used to finance other programs that benefit people in need. However, if local
officials want to increase taxpayer utility bills to finance these programs, voter approval will be necessary.

Where Proposition 218 will provide significant relief to taxpayers, especially the elderly, the
disabled and the disadvantaged, is with the fee limitation provisions. In particular, stopping the
current practice of many public agencies from overcharging ratepayers through excessive utility bills
and transferring the “surplus” to the general fund to be spent at the discretion of local politicians.
Proposition 218 will stop this “hidden tax” that is imposed without voter approval.

MYTH #5: Proposition 218 imposes new taxes on public agencies.
TRUTH: Proposition 218 does not require any public agency to pay taxes.

As noted by the California Supreme Court, an assessment is not a tax, but rather “is a compulsory
charge to recoup the cost of a public improvement made for the special benefit of particular property.”
Proposition 218 will require public agencies to pay their fair share of assessments to help recoup the
cost of public improvements made by another public agency. Such improvements can range from

water or sewer system improvements to improvements that enhance the safety of school children.

In recognizing that public agencies have to pay their bills just like everyone else, the Legislature
already requires many public agencies to pay their fair share to finance certain public improvements
made by other public agencies. In 1988, the Legislature enacted, without a single negative vote,

