AB 1350. This law allows public agencies to charge other public agencies their fair share of utility

fees to finance various capital improvements.

Moreover, under traditional assessment law, public agencies are already liable to pay assessments.
For example, under the Municipal Improvement Act of 1911, the agency imposing the assessment
has the discretion to charge other government entities. In short, this requirement is nothing new
and merely reflects the fact that true assessments can provide benefits to public property just like

they do to private property.
MYTH #6: Proposition 218 denies voting rights to renters.

TRUTH: Renters responsible for paying assessments and fees are entitled to vote under
Proposition 218.

Proposition 218 expressly permits renters to vote on assessments and fees if the renter is directly
liable to pay the assessment or fee in question. Under current law, renters have no such constitutional
right to vote. In addition Proposition 218 allows renters to vote on all tax measures provided they are
registered to vote. Renters also benefit from the fee protection provisions of Proposition 218, which
will help give renters relief from high utility bills. Overall, renters acquire numerous rights and
protections under Proposition 218 that they do not enjoy under current law.

MYTH #7: Proposition 218 increases government costs by forcing local agencies to hold
elections that are currently not required.

TRUTH: The election requirements under Proposition 218 are triggered when local
politicians decide that they want to raise taxes and assessments.

The election requirements under Proposition 218, which serve to protect taxpayers, are triggered
when local politicians make a discretionary policy decision to impose a particular revenue source. In
making that discretionary decision, local politicians will consider such factors as the likelihood of a
successful election, the. cost of the election versus the amount of revenue generated, and whether
alternative options are available. For successful elections, the election costs are normally recovered

from the proceeds of the tax or assessment that was approved.

Opponents of Proposition 218 also contend that all assessments will require annual reapproval
by property owners. This is simply not true. Even the local governments’ own experts agree that, as
long as the assessment rates do not increase, then annual approval by the property owners is not
necessary. Only increases in the assessment are subject to the approval process.
