Debra Bowen. Reformer. Fiscal Watchdog.
Fighting to clean up government.

Debra Bowen fights for the public’s interests — not the special interests. She has led the fight to
clean up government by fighting for political reform, exposing fraud and eliminating waste:

: ¢ Bowen introduced the bi-partisan Campaign Reform Act of 1996 to establish strict

ey campaign contribution limits.

EBRA BOWEN, 53rd DIST Fg , 25 ¢ Bowen set a new standard in Sacramento by voluntarily refusing gifts from
lobbyists. She has proposed a ban on all gifts from lobbyists to state legislators
and other officials.

No Gifts

- ¢ Bowen wrote the law to post voting records on the Internet so that you can see

: how every representative votes. She voluntarily places her own campaign

Please . q - ee contributions on the Internet.

¢ Bowen forced the state to be more responsible and business-minded when buying
costly computer systems after discovering that the Department of Motor Vehicles
wasted $51 million on an ill-conceived computer system.

¢ Bowen stopped the State from wasting nearly $1 billion on a welfare computer
system that wouldn’t have worked. Then, she got the project back on track so the
State will be able to crack down on welfare fraud and abuse — savings us millions
of dollars a year.

D.... Bowen is a different kind of leader —- one who puts public service ahead of aney
self-service. For Debra, public service is an honor — and she would rather give up her By James P Swe

is stem
| ( | ; _ As the federal prison sys
office than sacrifice her integrity. : sin =

ampaign re

prepares to welcom yet
woman on Friday
form plan killed in

Sacrament :
another California leg

Debra’s independent, honest leadership has made her a remarkably effective legislator, ced a sequel to an ambitious ¢

co-sponsoring dozens of bills with legislators from both parties. Debra knows that ie Jast month... jses a sweeping
problem solving is more important than partisan politics - because every family deserves oes easure by Debra Bowen, Torrance, prope an Saag
safer neighborhoods, better schools, quality jobs, and clean air and drinking water. No Be a of the state’s 20 year old Political S rcling

; over! 2 Von ff-year fundraising. .-
1 heigl Bowen has won the respect and support of community leaders throughout contribution limits and restrictions on olf) Bay co 400 mored

Goldsmith, R-
a ast year. Originally portrayed
breed of legislators filling

ow freshman :
reform bill I
ted from a new bre

Bowen and fell :
an exhaustive campaign
at what could be expec’
term-limit vacancies...
