Jetf Lipow: : z Jeff Lipow: Tough on
Education is Priority #1 Criminals — Smart on Crime

eff Lipow is dédicatéd ‘to attacking the causes of violent
crime in-America, as well as its tragic consequences. This
means being ‘tough of criminals and being smart on. -
crime by developing innovative programs to stop crime

; ; “before it take$'root in our cities, homes and schools. As
ees ae ag © oe your congressman, he will: : :

eff oon is the only candidate with a plan to, radically
improve dnd adyance our public schools. As your BS
sae eo he will: f “

Bi Ensure the safety and security of Gur sieel a ase
safe- havens for learning. . :

Wr Redifec , s

Misu ort boot cimps and ‘anti-drug education programs.
dollars currently, PP P e —
supporting : # Oppose parole for violent offenders aitd support alternative

- bloated - f = sentencing programs for non-violent offenders .to free up

administrative - ; jail cells. zs
bureaucracies to ae pos

A | Expand prison work

hiring more.
teachers and
reducing class

programs to help pay
for the cost of »
. elmprisonment.

size.
1 ‘ ae : : Mi Promote a strong and
Bi Provide state-of-the-art technology to meet the’needs of : 6 ane

y . .+ effective system for
our paudeary as we head into the 21st century. Z cree
‘ stopping drug traffic
- BiHave senanes and teachers contr] curriculum, aul teaching ; . - at our borders.,

methods—not politicians or r bureaucrats sitting on the

Boards of Education. ont “Suppor the deporte -

: tion of illegal, immi-
BB Expand college loans and route bétter soeper for ae grants who have been
_ vocational ee AS “4 ; Fe convicted of crimes and poke them serve|

Be sie * doy

, se ; ; their, full segtences in the prisons of their own countries.

.

Jeff Lipow: Protecting Medicare & §
Reforming Our Healthcare System

“Jeff Lipow:
A Business-Friendly Democrat

bd .

s a businessman, Jeff is the DirectorofRMG ~~). > eff Lipow is a seniors advocate who has dedicated. years
Corporation—a high tech, computer hardware and | ; providing pro bono legal services for senior citizens‘who- -
software developer: Jeffs extensive business have been victims of fraud, abuse or neglect. Jeff is»
background and expertise’ has taught*him to seek out -" ~ _ vehemently opposed tovany attempts to-harm older ,
private sector solutions to government problems:: As : . Americans by cutting Medicare and will make health

your congressman, He val: ES < insurance reform a top priority—ending the often hurtful.

Support tax reform, not tax increases.

@ Fight ‘for employer payroll tax ‘exemptions for smali
«' , businesses.

rs

Mi Improve access to investment capital for small businesses.

‘oS Strengthen’

and expand
worker,
. retraining

: programs. ©
through
our ° : a: and arbitrary practice of some companies which deny -, .
community ° , coverage to the‘truly needy, while driving up the_ ‘
colleges, ae of hard Manes Americans. sue =

Fo Propose a job%reation tax qedit to encourage small and Jeff Lipow ail fight for long- -term ee care. He believes

* mid-sized Susimeeses to expand. : : it is a crime that seniors and their families must be forced

BS “+ irlto ee Barer before they receive assistance.

@ Provide tax relief for family educatiom savings accounts. '

Jeff Lipow: Fighting For Our Future

