1. Patient Protection Act: Prop 216 Ends Gag Orders, Protects Whistleblowers

ARTICLES 2 & 3

A. Prevent HMOs and insurers from requiring physicians and other licensed caregivers to withhold medical information
from patients. :

A Prohibit HMOs, hospitals, nursing homes or other health care businesses from firing, delisting or retaliating against
licensed and certified caregivers who speak out on behalf of patients or who report patient care violations to authorities. _

WHAT YOUR DOCTOR CAN'T TELL YOU...
MIGHT KILL YOU

> PacifiCare blocked the use of Varivax, a chicken pox

vaccine that was approved by.the FDA, recommended by
; i hh medical experts, and required by law. The HMO advised
Doctors sign legal contracts with managed care organizations ; 4 ;
doctors to conceal the vaccine from patients and discourage

which contain “gag” or “disparagement” clauses prohibitin: I i E Saige } Eee}
898 jie P , its use if patients inquired. Although this vaccination is rec-

them fi ki blicl rivatel i
dsaeuseaaauanesintaibai fodder teddy ommended by three leading childhood immunization groups,

PacifiCare chose not to order it, possibly because each shot
costs $40. (Jay Greene, “PacifiCare Takes Hits Over Shot,”
Orange County Register, Apr. 2, 1996; Barbara Marsh,
“HMO to Be Investigated for Not Pushing Chickenpox
Vaccine,” L.A. Times, Apr. 3, 1996)

issues: bonuses they may receive from the HMO for denying
you care; innovative procedures that can save your life, but
may cost a lot; new and expensive drugs that are more effec-
tive with fewer side effects and discomfort. A gag order
literally prohibits providers from having an open conversa-
tion with you about your medical condition and all of your

treatment options. A Hospitals have fired, sanctioned, and threatened nurses

r 5 and other licensed caregivers who advocate for their patients,
A Gag orders mandate silence about treatments that may if , aes faUtf
challenge unsafe practices or cooperate with official investigations.

save your life.

> For nearly a year, the California Medical Board’s Committee
on Quality of Care in a Managed Care Environment heard
numerous accounts of treatments denied or delayed, physi-
cians threatened with loss of their contracts if they
advocated for their patients, arbitration which was any-
thing but impartial, and other problems.” (Medical Board of
California, Action Report, Apr., 1996)

> A Santa Monica oncologist referred her cancer patient to
a specialist who used successful innovative procedures. The
doctor was threatened with losing her job for referring a patient
for treatment “out of the network,” although the oncologist
considered the treatment to be in the best interest of her
patient. (David R. Olmos and Shari Roan, “HMO ‘Gag
Clauses’ on Doctors Spur Protest,” L.A. Times, Apr. 14, 1996)

> Alta Bates Medical Center in Berkeley, California disci-

’ plined two registered nurses for talking to reporters about the

impact of hospital changes on patients. Another RN was
called in for investigatory meetings after testifying before a
State Senate committee. (Robert Wages, “Nurses Punished for
Health Care Warnings,” St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Apr. 18, 1995)

> After raising concerns about hospital procedures with her
supervisor and medical director following a child's death
during dialysis, Laura Laugesen, RN, an expert in dialysis
care, was first instructed not to teach nurses how to prevent
future negative outcomes, then placed on investigatory leave,
and finally asked to resign.»(Testimony, Assembly Health
Committee, Apr. 16, 1996)
