When illness strikes, patients should get the
doctor-recommended care they paid for—
without interference from HMO bureaucrats

PROPOSITION 214 IS A SIMPLE, EFFECTIVE MEASURE TO CORRECT
SOME OF THE EXCESSES IN THE HMO INDUSTRY—EXCESSES LIKE THESE:

> HealthNet tried to deny a 32-year old mother with breast cancer a chance to live by refusing to pay for a doctor-recommended bone
marrow transplant (Time magazine). Another HMO, FHP/Take Care, refused to refer a 12-year old girl with a rare cancer to a specialist or to
pay for her surgery (San Francisco Examiner). Many HMOs discharge
new mothers and newborn infants as early as eight hours after
birth (Los Angeles Times).

Proposition 214 will protect the doctor-patient
relationship. HMOs will not be able to deny
doctor-recommended treatments without an
® \ appropriate second medical opinion. HMOs
i must also make public their criteria for
denial of treatment.

> HMO “gag rules” prevent doctors from telling patients vital
information about their own health care (New York Times, Time magazine). Unwritten “gag policies”
imposed by HMOs such as US Healthcare and CIGNA HealthCare (Time magazine) give HMOs virtually unlimited power over
doctors and health care workers—including the right to fire them without cause.

Proposition 214 will prohibit gag rules that prevent doctors from fully informing patients about treatment
options. To prevent intimidation and unwritten gag rules, insurers will be prevented from firing doctors and
health care workers without cause.
> HMOs have offered extra money to hear pe nurses on me deine needed medical treatment nt (SF Chronicle, L LA ATimes).

Proposition 214 will prohibit financial incentives to doctors and nurses for denying or delaying

eded care.

> A Los Angeles Times series exposed the way HMOs jeopardize patients by cutting corners to increase profits. HMOs spend up to 30%
of insurance premiums on exorbitant salaries and administrative costs, while skimping on patient care and inadequately staffing hospitals
and nursing homes.

Proposition 214 will protect patient safety by requiring hospitals and nursing homes to
provide minimum safe staffing of physicians, nurses and other licensed and certified
caregivers. The Initiative will also require HMOs and other health insurers to disclose
their profit and overhead.

Don’t believe the HMO industry!

Proposition 214 is simple and effective, and it does NOT increase taxes, create
new government agencies, or encourage litigation. It is easy to read and

understand, and we encourage voters to call or write Yes on I for for a full ania

OAKLAND: 510.433.9360 SACRAMENTO: 916. 444.7195 LOS ANGELES: 310. 441.8511
