Californians for

Political Reform

926 J Street, Suite 910 * Sacramento, CA 95814 * (916) 444-0834
10951 W. Pico Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90064 * (310) 475-8285
http://www.vida.com/cfr/

* YES ON PROP. 208 «
Why We Oppose the So-called "Anti-Corruption Act of 1996"

The so-called Anti-Corruption Act of 1996 is a counter-initiative sponsored by CalPIRG
(California Public Interest Research Group). CalPIRG launched its petition drive in January,
the same day that CPR turned in over 700,000 signatures for the California Political Reform
Initiative sponsored by the League of Women Voters, Common Cause, American Association
of Retired Persons (AARP) and United We Stand America (UWSA).

CalPIRG was originally part of the CPR coalition but chose to go its own way. We
believe that CalPIRG has made a series of serious policy and technical errors that has created
a fatally flawed initiative that would result in a giant step backward for campaign reform in
California.

° The ACA would gut the Ethics in Government Act.

Inexplicably, the ACA would repeal, without replacing, major portions of the cornerstone of
California's anti-corruption laws, the Ethics in Government Act. The ACA would eliminate
the ban on honoraria (speaking fees, etc.) for all candidates for elective office, local
government officials and members of State boards and commissions. This would mean
special interests could make direct cash payments to them personally, circumventing all
campaign finance restrictions entirely. The ACA would also allow state elected officials,
state legislative and local officials, and candidates for elective office to accept unlimited gifts
and free travel from special interest contributors.

The Ethics In Government Act, which stopped these practices, was passed in the wake of the
FBI anti-corruption sting which sent several state legislators to prison for vote selling. The
ACA would eviscerate this stringent anti-corruption law. Unfortunately, CalPIRG failed to
disclose this devastating provision of their initiative to signers, circulators and endorsers;
had they done so, we believe they would not have qualified for the ballot.

© We want effective reform now.

Many of the key provisions of ACA are designed to deliberately challenge current U.S.
Supreme Court and federal court decisions. These provisions (such as in-district and
mandatory spending caps) have been thrown out as unconstitutional. If CalPIRG wanted to
challenge current rulings they could have done so in a manner that did not jeopardize tough
reform proposals which are constitutional; unfortunately, they chose not to do so.

Every key provision of CPR has been challenged and upheld in court. If passed CPR will be
the toughest campaign finance reform law in the nation.

° Campaign reform should not favor any one group or special interest.

The ACA has a "citizen" PAC provision that would allow re-configured PACs to contribute
100 times more than individuals and other organizations.

A committee sponsored by The League of Women Voters of California
AARP, American Association of Retired Persons % Common Cause “ United We Stand America, Inc.
Tony Miller, Treasurer
