Putting rats first

“How can a rat threaten your home and very life without ever crawling onto your property? A
simplified bureaucratic answer: When the rat’s ‘critical habitat’ does, or could. support its living
habits on or near your property, even if the rat hasn’t moved in. An all too real case in point:
Last fall. Souther California property owners couldn't prevent racing brush fires from
overtaking their homes on account of the officially endangered kangaroo rat. Reportedly 30
homes were lost because of the rat.” /nvestor's Business Daily, 5/17/94.

Has been blamed for the forest fires now ravaging our state

The Clinton Administration continues to prevent local forest managers from implementing the
emergency timber salvage law that allows flexibility to expedite the removal of the tremendous
backlog of dead and dying trees in our forests. Just recently the Clinton Administration rejected
a scientific report that would have allowed moderate logging in national forests:

“Action by the Clinton administration last week further endangers the Sequoia National Forest
and other forests along the Sierra Nevada to catastrophic fire that will
not only destroy millions of trees. but kill thousands of species. . .
“If you have not made up vour mind on the presidential election by this time. then this
horrendous decision that basically condemns our local forest to catastrophic fire should be |
reason enough to seek an alternative to Clinton-Gore in 1996.” Porterville Recorder, 8/27/96. |

Redefining private property rights |

“Under current practices, [federal] agency employees can enter private property-- like a tract of
land-- with no advance permission and undertake soil tests or searches for animal or plant life.
When they find what they consider conditions or species that qualify for regulatory protection,
they notify owners out of the blue-- often threatening heavy fines if the owners don’t agree to
cease and desist their present use of the property or to forgo future economic development.”
San Diego Union-Tribune, 5/14/95.

Tried to raise rancher grazing fees by 130%

The Clinton Administration intended to double the amount of grazing fees from $1.86 per animal
unit a month to $4.28. Congressional Quarterly Almanac, 1994.

Actively supports the United Farm Workers union

On Labor Day of this year, Clinton sent his Housing and Urban Development Secretary Henry

Cisneros to speak with AFL-CIO boss John Sweeney at a rally in Fresno attended by 2,000 farm
workers:

“Cisneros gave his speech entirely in Spanish, while Sweeney spoke in English. Headsets were
available for simultaneous translation of the messages. Both cited the UF W’s renewed
organizing energy, chanting ‘Si se puede! -- Yes it can be done!’

with flag-waving and clapping workers.
“We must organize more workers as you in the Farm Workers union are doing,’ Sweeney said.
‘Whatever we do, we must ask how does this help us grow and give workers more power?
Because if we don’t grow in big numbers, we cannot survive.” Fresno Bee, 9/2/96.
