Retrofitting technology is proven and clearly works. Following the Loma Prieta earthquake in
1989, the state launched a program to reinforce California’s vulnerable bridge structures. Since
then, 1,039 bridges have been retrofitted with state-of-the-art technology. As anticipated, none
of the reinforced bridge structures sustained damage during the 7.1 Northridge temblor.

How will the project benefit me?

Without raising taxes, Proposition 192 will protect Californians from potentially life-threatening
damage from future earthquakes, will create jobs and will lend a boost to California’s struggling
economy. Both California residents and commerce will benefit by removing the potential for
failure of unsafe bridges and overpass structures.

Large earthquakes are inevitable in California. By acting now to shore up critical bridges and
highways, we can help ensure that emergency crews will be able save lives and that the flow of
commerce will be able to restore our economy.

Who pays for the project?

By selling $2 billion in bonds to investors, we can bagin to complete the safety repairs
immediately. As evidenced by collapsed freeways and bridges in the two powerful earthquakes
that California has sustained in the last six years, time is critical. The bonds will be repaid with
revenues from the state’s general fund.

Why not take the money from existing highway funds?

In fact, because of the high priority given to earthquake safety, existing highway funds have
been diverted to begin the needed work, effectively stalling other vital projects around California.
By using bonds to finance safety retrofit projects, the work can continue without delaying or
cancelling other projects. Proposition 192 would require CalTrans to use bond proceeds to pay
for retrofit projects and would stop the drain on the already-depleted State Highway Account,
allowing other important projects to move ahead.

Will there be a tax increase for me?

Annual revenues from the state’s-general fund are expected to be sufficient to repay the bonds
without a tax increase. Additionally, the $2 billion amount is well within the recommended debt
limit for California's bond-financed projects.

Why should ! support Proposition 192? Earthquakes don’t really affect me.

Major earthquakes in California impact everyone, whether they live in the area of destruction or
