J
4.
ul

®
(20 8 Campaign Contributions and Spending Limits.

Official Title and Summary Prepared by the Attorney General

CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS AND SPENDING LIMITS.

W \ \ f Nl Restricts Lobbyists. Initiative Statute.
ae
RESTRICTS LOBBYISTS. INITIATIVE STATUTE.

¢ Limits a contributor’s campaign contributions per candidate to $100 for districts of less than
100,000, $250 for larger districts, and $500 for statewide elections. Committees of small
contributors can contribute twice the limit. Contribution limits approximately double for
candidates who agree to limit spending. Limits total contributions from political parties,

businesses, unions and others. Prohibits transfers between candidates.
¢ Limits fundraising to specified time before election.
¢ Prohibits lobbyists from making and arranging contributions to those they influence.
¢ Requires disclosure of top contributors on ballot measure advertising.
¢ Increases penalties under Political Reform Act.

Summary of Legislative Analyst’s
Estimate of Net State and Local Government Fiscal Impact:

¢ Adoption of this measure would result in costs to state and local governments for implementation
and enforcement of new campaign finance limitations in the range of up to $4 million annually.
¢ The measure would result in unknown, but probably not significant, additional state and local

election costs.

Analysis by the Legislative Analyst

BACKGROUND

Campaign Contribution and Spending Limits.
Federal law limits the amount of money individuals and
groups can contribute to a candidate and to the
candidate’s campaign committee for federal elective
office. State law generally does not impose similar limits
on state and local campaigns. However, some local

overnments in California have established such limits
for local elective offices.

In addition, current state law contains no limits on the
amounts of personal loans or personal funds candidates
can use for their own elections. Also, there are no
aggregate limits on what individuals and groups can
contribute to all candidates for state and local elective
offices. Furthermore, there are no prohibitions on
lobbyists making, transmitting, or ato can | campaign
contributions. Finally, there are no limits on the amounts
of money candidates, their campaign committees, or
other groups in support of the candidate, can spend in
“7 election. :

eporting Requirements. Both state and federal
law require candidates for elective office to report
contributions they receive and spend for their campaigns.
In addition, state law requires that lobbyists register
with the Secretary of State’s office.

Court Review. The specific “Baer of this
measure have not been reviewed either state or
federal courts. In California and other states, a few

rovisions similar to those contained in this measure
ave been challenged in court and have been invalidated.

PROPOSAL

This measure makes a number of changes to current
state law regarding campaign contributions and
spending. Specifically, the measure:

¢ Limits the amount of campaign contributions that

26

an individual or group can make to a candidate for
state and local elective office and prohibits lobbyists
from making contributions.

¢ Establishes voluntary campaign spending limits.

¢ Limits when campaign fund-raising may occur.

¢ Establishes penalties for violations of the measure

and increases penalties for existing campaign law
violations.
Limits on Campaign Contributions

Limits on Contributions to a Single Candidate.
The measure establishes limits on the amount of political
campaign contributions that an individual, group
(including a business, labor organization, or political
action committee), or political party may make to a
candidate for statewide office (such as the Governor), the
state Legislature, and local elective office. Figure 1
summarizes these limits. As discussed later, these
contribution limits approximately double if a candidate
agrees to specified campaign spending limits. This
measure prohibits the transfer of campaign funds from
one candidate to another. This measure does not set
limits for any candidates for federal office.

Limits on Contributions to All Candidates. The
measure restricts the total amount an individual,
business, labor organization, or litical action
committee, can contribute to all candidates to no more
than $25,000 in any two-year period. Contributions from
political parties are limited to no more than 25 percent of
the voluntary spending limit for the office.

Other Limits. The measure limits the total amount
of loans a candidate may make to his or her campaign.
These limits are $50,000 for candidates for Governor and
$20,000 for all other candidates. Officeholders and
candidates are prohibited from soliciting or receiving
contributions from, or arranged by, lobbyists.

G96
