FOR OI IO OO I tok

Compare all
three choices

Which positions will you
support in 19967

emocratic and Republican
politicians have trivial dis-

agreements over major issues.
Compare their policies with those of
Harry Browne, Libertarian for Presi-
dent. Which positions do you favor?

@ Government Spending

Q Democrats: Increase the $1.5
trillion federal budget by 5% a year.

Q Republicans: Increase the $1.5
trillion federal budget by 3% a year.

O LIBERTARIAN HARRY BROWNE:
Slash federal spending 50% the first
year and keep shrinking it until we
have the small government autho-
rized by the Constitution.

I The Income Tax

Q Democrats: Government can’t
afford to cut your taxes.

Q Republicans: A 15% tax reduction
spread over three years.

QO LIBERTARIAN HARRY BROWNE:
Immediately end the Income Tax.
It’s your money. You earned it. You'll
be free to spend it, save it, or give
more to your favorite charity.

FI II II III III IK IKK IK IK IK

@ Balanced Budget

Q Democrats: Increase federal spending for
seven more years and hope a future Con-
gress balances the budget.

Q Republicans: Increase federal spending
for seven more years and hope a future
Congress balances the budget.

QO LIBERTARIAN HARRY BROWNE: Balance
the budget now. And every year that follows.
Sell off trillions of dollars in federal assets
the government shouldn’t own — and use the
proceeds to pay off the entire federal debt.

@ Crime & the War On Drugs

Q Democrats: Continue the War on Drugs.

Q Republicans: More federal powers, more
police, more prosecutions, more prisons.

QO LIBERTARIAN HARRY BROWNE: End the
insane War on Drugs now. This will take
away the obscene criminal profits of drug
pushers, break up street gangs, and make
our cities safe again. Pardon non-violent drug
offenders to make room in prisons for rapists
and murderers who terrorize our citizens.

@ Social Security

Q Democrats: No plan for reform.

Q Republicans: Fiddle with the Consumer
Price Index.

O LIBERTARIAN HARRY BROWNE: Sell off
federal assets and use the proceeds to buy
private retirement annuities for senior
citizens who are dependent on Social
Security — annuities from companies who
keep their promises and never change the
rules. Browne will end the 15% Social
Security tax and leave Americans free to
choose their own retirement.

