NO ON 213 - CONSUMERS AGAINST NO FAULT
2110 K Street, Suite 14, Sacramento, CA 95816

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

TO: POLITICAL/CAMPAIGN DESK

CONTACT: Dana Mitchell, Campaign Coordinator
No on 213 - Consumers Against No Fault
2110 K Street, Suite 14 Sacramento, CA 95816
phone (916) 444-0748 fax (916) 444-1048

Regarding: No on Proposition 213 the Quackenbush Initiative

Text:

The Consumers Against No Fault, a coalition of citizen, consumer and community
organizations opposed to Insurance Commissioner Quackenbush's Proposition 213,
announce the opening of the No on Prop. 213, Consumers Against No Fault campaign
office. The office is located at 2110 K Street, Suite 14, Sacramento, CA. 95816.

Proposition 213 is an effort by Insurance Commissioner Quackenbush and the
insurance industry to punish certain classes of drivers who are injured in accidents -- by
denial of full compensation -- even if they are not at fault.

"We believe that this proposition is unfair, particularly as applied to uninsured
motorists," says Ms. Ina De Long, founder of the insurance consumer education
organization United Policyholders, and Chair of the No on 213 -- Consumers Against No
Fault, campaign. De Long continues, "no one endorses criminal behavior or drunk
driving, but current law already protects us from these classes of drivers. This initiative is
really just a sneaky way for the insurance industry to get no fault passed in California. Its'
no fault in sheep's clothing. California has overwhelmingly said no to no fault several
times. How many times do we have to tell the insurance industry no?", She asks.

Adds Harvey Rosenfield, of the Proposition 103 Enforcement Project, "This
proposition will not save Californians a dime. The Quackenbush Initiative claims that it
will reduce costs for insurance companies in California, but no where does it guarantee our
rates will be lower. Reduced costs for the insurance industry simply means increased
profits." Rosenfield continues, "through the ongoing fight to implement Proposition 103,
we already know that getting this industry to let go of its' profits is like pulling teeth ... of a
tiger!"

John Gamboa of the Greenlining Institute calls Proposition 213 "deliberately
tricky," and points out that passage of this initiative could result in large tax increases.
"Since one-third of auto accident victims cannot afford auto insurance and will not get full
medical care under Proposition 213, local counties and hospitals will have to absorb
emergency assistance costs that can run up into the billions of dollars a year."

For more information on the No on Proposition 213, Consumers Against No Fault
campaign, please contact Dana Mitchell at the above number and address.
