rwyvr

DOLE KEMP

Bos DOLE WILL RENEW OUR COMMITMENT TO THE War oN Drucs

Bob Dole:
* Will once again make the War on Drugs a top priority.

* Supports stepping-up federal law enforcement’s attack against drug kingpins and their
lieutenants. Enforcement of the federal drug laws has fallen off sharply in recent years. In
fact, since 1992, drug prosecutions by the Justice Department have dropped by more than
10%, and convictions fell in 1994 after years of steady increases.

* Supports making drug interdiction, the process by which drugs are seized before they reach
our borders, a top foreign policy priority. Since 1993, the Clinton Administration has cut
funding for drug interdiction by 16% over the last three years.

* Will require drug testing for those in the federal criminal justice system-- in prison, probation
or pretrial release-- and penalize those that use them.

* Will appoint tough judges who won't be “soft on crime.”

° Believes we must restore the stigma associated with illegal drug use. Bob Dole has spoken
out against drugs and has repeatedly stated there can be no ambiguity that drug use is wrong.
As Bob Dole recently stated, “A message that drugs are O.K. or harmless fun— a message that
has been seen in television and movies and heard in popular music on an increasing basis
recently is a message we should not and must not tolerate.”

* Has urged Californians to reject California’s controversial Proposition 215, the initiative that
would have the effect of legalizing marijuana. Bill Clinton has yet to take a position on the
issue.

As President, Bob Dole will provide the American people with the leadership we urgently
need to fight the rising drug problem. He will make a commitment to renew America’s War on
Drugs. He will provide the necessary resources to fight illegal drug use. He will appoint a strong
“Drug Czar.” He will not be afraid to get tough with countries that refuse to cooperate with our
anti-drug efforts. And, most important, he will show the moral leadership we need to protect our
children from illegal drugs, by making it clear that drug use is wrong and will not be tolerated.

Authorized and paid for by Dole/Kemp ’96, Robert E. Lighthizer, Treasurer
810 First Street, Northeast © Suite 300 « Washington, DC 20002 « (202) 414-6400

