AGRICULTURE PLATFORM

sions, including the weather, quality of the
soil, threat of pests, available financial re-
sources, and changing agricultural markets.
Economic pressures cause stress, which af-
fects health and well-being. Research has
found that farmers are also at high risk from
exposure to chemical pesticides [10].

THE SOLUTION

Agriculture is more than a business; it is a way
of life. The food produced by farmers is basic to
our health and national security, and farmland
itself is an irreplaceable resource vital to suste-
nance of life. Therefore, government must help
ensure the long-term viability of agriculture.

The Natural Law Party supports legislation that
will ensure social, economic, and environmen-
tal sustainability of agriculture while balancing
the following goals: (1) promoting health and
longevity in farmers and in the population as a
whole; (2) protecting natural resources and the
environment; (3) enabling farmers to better pur-
sue financial profitability; (4) cushioning farm-
ers from the natural and financial instability
unique to agriculture; (5) ensuring an economi-
cal and healthful supply of high-quality food for
consumers; and (6) restoring the vitality of rural
communities.

The Natural Law Party has identified solutions
to the problems faced by U.S. agriculture:

1. Given the far-reaching ecological and health
impacts of genetic engineering, a moratorium
should be imposed on the release of genetically
engineered organisms until the safety of such
organisms can be firmly established. In addi-
tion, to protect the public’s right to know, label-
ing of genetically engineered foods should be
mandatory.

2. Farm policies should be redirected to expand
opportunities for new and existing farmers to
prosper using sustainable systems that will en-
hance the health of the farmers and the popula-
tion as a whole. Training and apprenticeship pro-

grams, loans, grants, and other incentives should
be devised to assist conventional and entry-level
farmers to adopt organic or more sustainable
systems. Demonstration farms, farmer-to-farmer
networks and field tours, and studies of success-
ful alternative farming systems should be used
to hasten the adoption of more sustainable prac-
tices.

3. Many policy makers and farm leaders favor
subsidy programs keyed to the income of the
farmer, rather than the price of the crop—pro-
grams that reward, rather than penalize, resource-
conserving, nonpolluting practices. For example,
“revenue assurance” programs, “decoupled”
from commodity prices and production levels,
would guarantee adequate farm incomes while
reducing total program costs and minimizing the
impact of government programs on commodity
prices [11]. Farmers would gain more flexibil-
ity to choose what to plant, where, and when.
They would be freer to rotate crops and adopt
other techniques that better conserve soil and
water. Transitional subsidy programs of this type
will help transfer financial and administrative
responsibility to the private sector (e.g., the in-
surance industry) as soon as possible.

4. The U.S. should change its policy focus from
“cheap food for the consumer” to “quality food
for the consumer on a sustainable basis.”
Through research and education, the U.S. De-
partment of Agriculture is in a unique position
to influence (a) practices of farmers and the food-
production industry, and (b) the food choices and
demands of consumers:

(a) Field-tested techniques supported by sci-
entific research, such as integrated pest man-
agement, integrated crop management, and
organic farming, already exist for farming
profitably on a chemical-free, sustainable
basis [12]. On this basis, agrichemical use
could be reduced 50% by the year 2000. The
USDA should initiate and fund research into
further development of alternative and chemi-
cal-free sustainable agricultural practices,

32

i

AGRICULTURE PLATFORM

with an emphasis on the development of sys-
tems and technologies that can be integrated
economically and completely into all agricul-
tural production. In addition, economists have
developed accounting techniques that incor-
porate the costs of pollution and natural-re-
source depletion into agriculture’s balance
sheet [13]. Government legislation should
make it a priority to disseminate these prac-
tices and techniques to the entire food pro-
duction industry, showing farmers, produc-
ers, and consumers that sustainable food pro-
duction practices are more cost-effective in
the long run.

(b) Consumer demand drives agricultural sup-
ply. Changes in consumer preferences ‘will
create a shift toward less resource-intensive
food production and a healthier food supply.
The USDA should initiate and fund research
investigating the impact of dietary change on
health and longevity, and then launch cam-
paigns to educate the public. For example,
government should fund vigorous programs
to inform consumers that chemical-free food
is possible now, at a reasonable price. More-
over, scientists have recently concluded that
substantial public health and environmental
benefits would likely result from more wide-
spread use of vegetables, fruit, and plant-
based protein in the diet [14]. The govern-
ment should educate the public about the
health and environmental value of these foods
in the diet.

Land-grant universities and extension services
should also take the initiative to develop and
disseminate sustainable agricultural practices
and healthier dietary approaches.

5. Farm communities should seek new ways to
keep “value-added” processes and profits as
close as possible to the farm. Public policy
should promote cooperative development of lo-
cal processing facilities and diversification into
the production of higher-value, specialized
crops—including chemical-free production.

6. Family-sized farms should be protected and
strengthened through more programs such as
FAIR’s Fund for Rural America, which supports
value-added incentives, assistance for minority
and beginning farmers, and other initiatives to
empower farmers and rural communities to work
towards revitalizing rural life. Even removing
farm payment loopholes for large corporate
agribusinesses would favor the viability of fam-
ily-sized farms. Programs such as the Fund for
Rural America should be given high priority and
full funding.

7. For the above recommendations to be suc-
cessful, however, it is necessary—for the indi-
vidual farmer and society as a whole—to de-
velop consciousness and gain more support of
natural law. The Natural Law Party therefore
recommends educational programs to develop
the consciousness of the farmer and thereby re-
‘duce stress, improve the farmer’s health and
well-being, and promote the skills to meet new
management challenges. Such programs will
enable farmers to spontaneously make better
decisions and better use of the environment, and
will bring them greater support of natural law in
all their activities [15]. Similarly, the reduction
of stress in the collective consciousness of soci-
ety [16], combined with the Natural Law Party's
focus on education, will influence consumer
choices toward higher-quality food, better health,
and more life-enriching behavior—life in accord
with natural law [17]. These programs will help
ensure that the natural resources upon which
agriculture depends will be available far into the
future.

NOTES

1. “Grain Prices Head Higher,” Business Week,
November 20, 1995, p. 38.

2. “Another Crisis in World’s Future?” Des
Moines Register, November 12, 1995, p. 1J.

3. U.S. Department of Agriculture data.

33

