UNITED STATES PRESIDENTIAL

AID To SUPPORTS OPPOSES
ISRAEL “Israel is not alone. America stands with “We have limits. Israel has gotten a lot of
you, and with every passing day, so do more_| preferential treatment.”(Washington
CONSTITUTIONAL Opposes SUPPORTS
AMENDMENT ON | I do believe that on balance, the direction | “A constitutional amendment for voluntary
Clinton supports the “right of every woman
to choose, consistent with Roe v. Wade, and

people here and abroad.” (Speech, 3/14/96) | Times, 1/17/90)
SCHOOL PRAYER of the First Amendment has been very good | prayer in school, in my view, would be a
regardless of ability to pay.” (1996

“U.S. assistance to Israel...furthers national | “(T)he American taxpayer has no interest

for America and has made us the most great idea. I support it.” (Washington Post
CHOICE

Democratic Platform)

our role in fostering peace and stability in economy in Israel.” (Jerusalem Post, 10/11/91)
the Middle East...(It) is one of my “I know Jewish leaders. They wouldn’t give
administration’s top foreign policy one penny to anyone else (besides Israel).
objectives.” (Associated Press, 3/24/96) It’s too bad. They shouldn’t be that way.”
(Intermountain Jewish News, 4/27/90)
government out of creating religion, Dole voted to prohibit military personnel
supporting particular religions...and from wearing religious apparel, such as a
interfering with other people’s religious kippah. (1987 Cong. Quarterly Almanac)
practices.” (Washington Post, 7/13/95)
SUPPORTS

OPPosEs

“It is my long held view that Roe v. Wade...
should be overturned.” (“Meet the Press,”
12/17/95)

“I’ve got a strong, consistent pro-life
record. I’ve had it ever since I’ve been in
Congress.” (“Meet the Press,” 12/20/95)

security interests. We must continue to play | in subsidizing the backward socialist
religious country in the world by keeping the | Debate Transcript, 10/17/96)
“(Abortions) should be safe, legal, and rare.”

(San Francisco Examiner, 2/12/95)

PROHIBITING OPPOSES SUPPORTS
CHILDREN OF “There is a right way and a wrong way to Bob Dole supports an amendment to allow
g MY is way, PP
ILLEGAL fight illegal immigration.” The provision for | states to deny children of illegal immigrants

access to public education. Dole said “It’s
not that we are not compassionate, but

where do you draw the line?” (Washington
Post, 6/20/96)

IMMIGRANTS FROM denying education, “would result in kicking
children out of school and onto streets. If
PUBLIC SCHOOLS

the immigration bill contains this provision,
I will veto it.” (Washington Times, 8/7/96)

SUPPORTS
“I will veto any attempt to repeal the assault
weapons ban or the Brady Bill.” (Washington
Post, 7/11/96)

OPPOSES

“I voted against the gun ban in 1994 and I
will vote to repeal it in 1995.” (Letter to
the National Rifle Association, 3/10/95)

OPPposeEs

According to the League of Conservation

Voters, “Dole has compiled a consistently
poor environmental voting record” and has
earned a 19 percent lifetime voting record.

ASSAULT
WEAPONS BAN

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPORTS

“(His) record has been marked by numerous
outstanding appointments, strong
environmental proposals, and innovative
administrative actions.” (League of
Conservation Voters)

24TH CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT

AID TO
ISRAEL
CHOICE

PRESERVATION
OF NATIONAL
PARKS

PUBLIC
EDUCATION

MEDICARE

ASSAULT
WEAPONS
BAN

SUPPORTS

Sherman strongly supports aid to Israel
and refers to it as “cost-effective.” He also
supports Israel’s right to take the
“necessary steps” to protect its citizens.

SUPPORTS

Sherman is pro-choice. He has been
endorsed by the California Abortion Rights
Action League and has vowed to actively
oppose all efforts to terminate funds for
family planning.

SUPPORTS
Sherman supports protecting the Santa
Monica Mountains and Santa Monica Bay.
He believes the parks belong to the public.

SUPPORTS
Sherman supports maintaining the
Department of Education. He is also
supported by the National Education
Association. Sherman supports student
loans and keeping higher education
affordable.

SUPPORTS

Sherman strongly opposes any cuts in
Medicare funding.

SUPPORTS
Sherman supports the ban on assault
weapons and preventing sales of
ammunition to minors.

SUPPORTS

Sherman is opposed to any cuts that
would threaten clean air and water and has
been endorsed by the Sierra Club and the
League of Conservation Voters.

OPPOSES

Sybert wrote, “Nor can the United States
be expected forever to supply Israel with
billions of dollars of military aid that
essentially does little to resolve the
situation.” (Pasadena Star News, 2/20/89)

OPPOSES
Sybert supports reversing Roe v. Wade
writing, “It is undeniable...that a human
fetus is some sort of human life, and that
abortion kills it...it is not merely a
‘woman’s private choice’ to have an
abortion.” (Pasadena Star News, 7/10/89)

OPPOSES
Sybert supports the privatization and
commercial development of the Santa
Monica Mountains.

OPPOSES
Sybert supports closing the Department
of Education. He has also pledged to
support the Republican Congress’ agenda
to raise interest rates for student loans.

OPPOSES

Sybert supports Republican-backed cuts
in Medicare funding.

OPPoseEs

Sybert is opposed to any further federal
limits on assault weapons.

OPPOSES
Sybert signed the “Contract with
America,” which attempted to lower clean
air and water standards and supports oil
drilling in the Arctic Refuge.

*This guide was developed through the compilation of voting records, candidate
statements, campaign literature, and personal interviews.
