How Proposition 218 "The Right to Vote On Taxes Act" Works

LOCAL TAXES, ASSESSMENTS AND FEES

__ General Taxes

UNDER CURRENT LAW

UNDER PROPOSITION 218

General taxes are levied to raise money for
the geneal fund to be used for a wide variety
of purposes at the local level. Examples of
taxes usually classified as general are utility
taxes, business licenses, real estate transfer
taxes and hotel taxes.

Special Taxes

Not all cities are the same in California.
Charter cities, such as Los Angeles,
Sacramento and San Jose can impose
general taxes by a simple vote of the city
council. General law cities are required to
obtain a majority vote of the people.

Proposition 218 makes the impositon of
taxes the same for everyone. No matter
where you live in California, it will require a
majority vote of the people to increase any
general tax in any city or county. See Note
1).

Special taxes are levied for a specifc
purpose. Some examples are special parcel
taxes or local sales taxes which go to pay for
roads or light rail, or to supplement libraries
or police.

Assessments

Currently all local governments must get a

2/3 vote of the people to pass special taxes.

Propostion 218 simply restates existing law.

Assessments or “benefit assessments” are
additional taxes imposed on property owners
for services which are supposed to benefit
their property. Street lights and street
improvements paid for by a "Landscape and
lighting" district tax is one example.

Fees and Service Charges

At least 20 different state laws affect
assessments. Most assessments are imposed
by a simple vote of the local taxing agency
or city council after public hearing. A 50%
protest is needed to stop new assessments;
large property owners get larger votes.

Under Proposition 218 the rules for
“assessments” are the same throughout the
state. The improvement to be provided
must benefit the property and only goes
into effect if approved by 50% of those
owners voting by mail. Voting is
proportional. See Note 2).

These charges to property owners are
usually paid monthly for direct services to
property like street sweeping fees. Lately
parcel charges have been imposed to pay for
non-property related services.

Currently these fees and charges can be
increased by a vote of the local taxing
agency following a hearing. In some cases,
these fees supplement general fund
expenditures by cities and counties.

Proposition 218 requires 2/3 voter approval
or majority approval by property owners to
increase these fees. It also requires that
fees not exceed the cost of the service
provided. Water, sewer and garbage
collection fees are exempted from voter
approval.

1) To stop a rush to approve taxes prior to its passage, Propsition 218 requires voters to approve all new or increased taxes imposed after January 1, 1995.

2) The proportional vote provisions give those who benefit more a larger vote or put another way "those who will pay more" get a larger proportional vote.

PROP 218 is Sponsored by the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association with Paul Gann's Citizens Committee and The Alliance of California Taxpayers and Involved Voters

nw
