Paula Boland with her husband Lloyd
on December 3, 1990, the day she was sworn into the
California State Assembly.

LLOYD E. BOLAND, JR.

JARMAN

Dear Friend,

I want to share with you a story about an extraordinary woman, my
wife, Paula Boland.

Paula was born to Italian immigrants who achieved the American
Dream by building a small business and nurturing a family.
Following her high school graduation, Paula married her
sweetheart.

But, within a few years she found herself in an abusive marriage with a toddler son and baby
daughter to protect. To save her children and herself, Paula left, choosing to go it alone rather
than stay in a destructive relationship.

Being a single mom in those days was not widely acceptable, but she was sustained through
faith, family and the fighting spirit that has always served her well.

Paula eventually turned to real estate, later owning her own office. As a business woman, she
became involved in the community. She established a foundation for the local hospital, helped
launch the police activity league, and became President of the Chamber of Commerce. And she
even squeezed in a trip to the alter with me! ‘

The opportunity to do more came in 1990 when Paula was elected to State Assembly.

As the first female Chair of the Assembly Committee on Public Safety, Paula has been an
advocate for crime victims and law enforcement. She passed the “One Strike” law for child
molesters, the “Right to Know” law for rape victims, and she lifted the statute of limitations for
sexual child abuse. She also defeated the most powerful lobby in Sacramento when she passed
the law that enables parents to breakup the mammoth Los Angeles Unified School District.

Paula has faced professional and personal adversity but always triumphed.

These challenges have given her the compassion, strength and determination to fight for what is

‘right for our families and community. Let’s send Paula to the State Senate to continue fighting

for us.

Sincerely,

Lige £ Gene Sh,

Lloyd E. Boland, Jr.

