xk

DOLE KEMP

Bob Dole: The Better Man for a Better America
Jack Kemp
Republican Vice Presidential Nominee
October 1996

Tn less than one month, you and millions of college students across the country will be
making a decision that will dramatically affect your futures. In the midst of working to
raise your GPA, studying for the GMAT or GRE and polishing your resume, you will be
selecting the next President of the United States -- and choosing the path that our country
takes into the next millennium.

No one has a bigger stake in this election than young voters. No event this year will
shape your futures more than this election. So, over the next few weeks, I urge you to
keep your eyes, your ears and your minds open to Bob Dole and his vision for this
country’s future.

Bob Dole and I share a vision for America that provides the freedom and the
opportunities for all Americans to work together toward a prosperous 21st century. We
believe that all Americans should have better tools and better opportunities to work and
to pursue a quality education. We believe that the federal government should be smaller
and more efficient. We believe in building strong families by encouraging secure,
positive environments to teach and to raise children.

Bob Dole and I believe that young people like you who are entering the job market
deserve better than the status quo -- where wages have stagnated for years and the
economy has sputtered along at a sluggish 2.3 percent growth rate. That is why we will
cut taxes, trim the Washington bureaucracy, and boost wages and growth.

Bob Dole and I believe that when you enter the work force, you should not spend more of
your paycheck on taxes than on food, clothing and shelter combined. That is we are
committed to cutting the federal income tax rate by 15 percent and leave more of your
paycheck in your pocket where it belongs.

Bob Dole and I believe it is wrong that you are burdened with billions of dollars of
government debt each year. There is no reason for the government to spend even $1
more than it takes in -- no family, no businessperson, no student can run up endless debts.
That is why we are committed to cutting wasteful spending and balancing the budget by
2002, while protecting and strengthening useful government programs.
