The California Civil Rights Initiative

will restore to California the original meaning and purpose of the
USS. Civil Rights Act.

The U.S. Civil Rights Act has been amended by judicial interpretation to permit preferential treatment
for certain groups on the basis of race, sex, and ethnicity. But as a matter of simple logic, one cannot
prefer on the basis of these criteria without discriminating against someone else. Such preferences,
therefore. violate the nation's and the Congress’ original understanding of civil rights.

Senator Hubert Humphrey (D-Wis.), one of the bill's principal supporters in Congress declared: "The
simple and complete truth about [the Act] is that it forbids discriminating against anyone on account of

race,"

The California Civil Rights Initiative will constitutionalize this fundamental civil rights principle with
regard to public employment, public education, and public contracting on the state of California.

The Civil Rights Act

Title VI, Sec. 601

No person in the United States shall, on the grounds of
race, color, or national origin, be excluded from
participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subject
to discrimination under any program or activity
receiving federal financial assistance.

Title VII, Sec. 703

(a) It shall be an unlawful employment practice for an
employer (1) to fail or refuse to hire or to discharge
any individual, or otherwise to discriminate against
any individual with respect to his compensation, terms,
conditions, or privileges of employment, because of
such individual's race, color, religion, sex, or national
origin; or (2) to limit, segregate or classify his
employees in any way which would deprive or tend to
deprive any individual of employment opportunities or
otherwise adversely affect his status as an employee,
because of such individual's race, color, religion, sex,
or national origin.

(j) Nothing contained in this title shall be interpreted to
require any employer, employment agency, labor
organization, or joint labor-management committee
subject to this title to grant preferential treatment to
any individual or to any group because of the race,
color, religion, sex, or national origin of such
individual or group on account of an imbalance
which may exist with respect to the total number or

percentage of persons of any race, color, religion, sex,
or national origin employed by any employer, referred
or classified for employment by any employment
agency or labor organization, admitted to membership
or classified by any labor organization, or admitted to,
or employed in, any apprenticeship or other training
program, in comparison with the total number or
percentage of persons of such race, color, religion, sex,
or national origin in any community, State, section, or
other area, or in the available work force in any
community, State, section, or other area.

Title VII, Sec. 704

(b) It shall be an unlawful employment practice for an
employer, labor organization, or employment agency
to print or publish or cause to be printed or published
any notice or advertisement relating to employment by
such an employer or membership in or any
classification or referral for employment by such a
labor organization, or relating to any classification or
referral for employment by such an employment
agency, indicating any preference, limitation,
specification, or discrimination based on race, color,
religion, sex, or national origin, except that such a
notice or advertisement may indicate a preference,
limitation, specification, or discrimination based on
religion, sex, or national origin when religion, sex, or
national origin is a bona fide occupational
qualification for employment.
