WE MUST ELECT LEADERS WHO DON’T SIT ON THE FENCE -
LEADERS LIKE DEBRA BOWEN.

ASSEMBLYWOMAN DEBRA BOWEN.
Poe A TOUGH PLAN TO STOP ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION.

is nin eRe 01 California Legislature HUMAN SERVICES Debra Bowen has fought for sensible bi-partisan solutions to stop illegal immigration. She voted to require proof
ih DEBRA BOWEN of legal residency to get a driver’s license. She authored a bill to stiffen penalties for those who manufacture, sell
18411 Crenshaw Bh Assemblywoman, Fifty-Third District
Terce CA 0508 cenmnnen t Spinco ween Dt Lan
oe CO S240 ree ett reenact

June 15,1993

, Chairman
The Honorable John vaso cerneig nH oo
The Honorable Alfred Alquist,
Budget Conference Committee
State Capitol

California taxpayers have a right to demand that the
federal rnment control our bor -
Sacramento, CA 95814 ‘ederal government control our borders - and we

shouldn’t be stuck with the tab.

Re, ili from the Conference
250 million dollars t onfer'
ingest ie felons in California. |
This letter Is to respec gen allocated to incarcerate undocumented fel . “an a :
ees County delegation believe that to spend if band fs : oe
hegre me time as! wn

The members of the Los 2. |

Everyone knows how easy it is to buy a fake green
: r lly, while at the same igabled to take a 4
tered this state illegal ‘ed, blind, and disat
dollars on felons who en n services, our poor, aged,
cies to cut back o!

card at just about any swap meet. We need better
is unwise and ier pene
enforcement lea eS our university students to pay even higher fees, is u! ited at jeg ge and we need Bowen s bill to
2.7% grant reduction, stiffen penalties for manufacturing, selling and
unjustified. ¢ 1992, the Department of Corrections | ieomiperd 4 carrying fake documents.
ter 1322 of * i state illegally a!
Uneenne ats bse Reecinon to identify inmates who are 19 me is have been
implement an

to deportation We believe that the next logical step, once those illegal felon:
portati log! *

leg to the Immigrati ) a should not be spending
sees wage’ 4 prs through its third year of beer ‘tegel aflons who have been
time Sak eet Se clothe, and feed over 11,000 illeg

$250 million 2

Half of illegal immigrants enter this country legally
convicted of felonies.

but never leave. We must develop a more efficient
ae ion respectfully request that You system to track these people so they can be
Jes County legistative delegation respec TN aaa, which did y peop! yf
pies TF ee ; nd cuneate budget report with the original
reconcile the Con!

ted after their visas expire.
it

Stop Visa Abuse

hank you for your tience and yo! r consideration of this request.
y your patienc and yout ati this req
al

ENDORSED BY OVER
Bowen took the lead in he as ame

demanding that illegal aliens in

i ae 60,000 POLICE OFFICERS

potential $400 million a year
savings to California taxpayers.

and use fake documents. She supported immediate deportation of illegal aliens who are incarcerated and
helped pass a resolution demanding that the federal government pay for the cost of illegal immigration.

Get tougher on employers who hire illegal
immigrants

Although it is against the law to hire illegal
immigrants, many employers would rather use cheap
labor than obey the law. We must remove the
incentive to hire illegal immigrants by confiscating
the business licenses of those who break the law,
cracking down on sweatshop owners, and going

after employers who hire illegal immigrants to avoid
paying taxes.

Stiffen Penalties for “Coyotes”

The “coyotes” who make their living by smuggling
people into California must be put out of business.

Bowen will push for stiff penalties for these
smugglers.

Re-elect

Assemblywoman

Integrity. Independence, ":

