/ 36 16:88 @11 916 449 S332
@8 796 @5!10PM SHERIFF STAFF

SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT

Glen Craig
Sheriff
Remarks of Sheriff Glen Craig

Regarding Proposition 197
January 9, 1996

Ladies and Gentlemen:

I wanted to take a few moments and talk about the relationship between wildlife management
and public safety here in California. As you all know, there is an initiative on the March
ballot which would allow the management of mountain lions in order to properly manage the
population explosion that has occurred in recent years. This initiative is good public policy
and deserves the voters’ support.

I am in total support of Proposition 197, backed by Senator Tim Leslie and Californians for
Balanced Wildlife Management — a broad coalition of farming, recreation and agricultural
interests.

The opponents of Proposition 197 are claiming it is simply an attempt to open Up
sporthunting on mountain lions, and that its supporters are a bunch of trigger bappy members

You may ask why I am supporting an initiative regarding wildlife management. The answer
is simple, public safety. res

the population, create a management plan and adopt it, The Department's responsibility is to
bring the lion population under control, not to let this predator continue stalking and killing
neighborhood pets, livestock, and wildlife species, and sometimes people This is an attempt
to bring common sense back to wildlife management. :

Proposition 197 is NOT a hunting issue. It allows the Department of Fish and Game to study

Some people may be asking why this measure is needed. After all, lions, aren’t a problem in
most cities around California. So what if a few dogs, cats and people get killed in the rural
communities. Nobody really cares. It won't happen to me or my family. Well, if
Proposition 197 doesn’t pass, we will all have to pay the price. Proposition 197 places the
rights of people first and foremost.

SACRAMENTO COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT « P.O. BOX 088 © GACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA 95812-0988 _«

