» eile
ol
in
a
ie
we
Ge
litre
G?
fe
fens
-
=)
Gr
ies

A$700 MILLION TAX INCREASE
AIMED AT SMALL BUSINESSES

Proponents of Proposition 217 claim they want to “soak the rich”. But their complicated tax

increase proposal is a bullet aimed at small businesses that are creating more than half of
California’s jobs.

Proposition 217 Would Raise Taxes on Small Businesses — Permanently

A full 80% of California’s businesses pay personal, not corporate, state income taxes. Thousands of them
are small firms and would be subject to Proposition 217’s permanent tax increase, costing many of them
tens of thousands of dollars every year.

What Would Proposition 217 Mean in Real Terms for a Real Business?

One of Proposition 217’s victims would be Herald Printing — Ventura County’s oldest
print shop — founded in 1906. Its owner, Ruth Lundquist, has been running the shop for
more than 20 years, printing everything from sophisticated brochures to local newsletters.
Fourteen employees depend on Herald Printing for their jobs. Like thousands of other
small businesses, Herald Printing’s income is reported in its owner’s personal income tax
return and is taxed at a 9.3% rate.

Proposition 217 would increase Herald Printing’s taxes by several thousand dollars. And,
to add insult to injury, because its owners estimate and make quarterly payments on their
annual tax bill, Proposition 217 could unfairly penalize them for not paying its higher rate
all year long.

How Would Herald Printing Cope With Proposition 217?
Just as they must with any other sharp cost increase — raise prices or cut jobs. Their
profit margin is slim. Any increased costs either get passed along to customers — mostly
other small businesses — or result in job losses, salary cuts or deferred pay raises. Every-

one at Herald Printing would feel the impact of Proposition 217. Multiply this story by
thousands and you begin to understand the impact of Proposition 217.

“The impacts of Prop. 217 are real. When you take money away from
a small business like mine, it has to be made up somewhere else. That
means lower salaries higher prices and fewer jobs.”

- Ruth Lundquist, Owner, Herald Printing

[continued on reverse]
