CRIME
_ The document states that under Bill Clinton's tenure, violent crime has tuned
American homes into prisons and streets and schoolyards into battlegrounds. Recognizing
that while the federal government’s role is essential, law enforcement must remain in the
hands of local communities, directed by state and local officials. The Platform
encourages:

e Tougher federal penalties for child pornography;

e Enactment of state truth-in-sentencing laws which require violent felons to serve at
least 85% of their sentences;

© No-fills prisons where prisoners are required to work while serving more of their
sentences;

e A Presidential Commission to study more effective methods to prosecute terrorists.

To combat surging juvenile crime, the Platform promises to stress accountability at
every step in the system and require adult trials for juveniles who commit adult crimes.
The Platform also recognizes the forgotten rights of victims by proposing a Constitutional
amendment to protect victim’s rights.

KIDS & DRUGS
The Platform charges that Bill Clinton has surrendered in the War on Drugs. Asa
result of his neglect, recent marijuana use is up 200% for kids as young as 14 to 15 years
old. Overall, teenage drug use has increased each year Clinton has been in office. This is
a national disgrace. The Platform states, in no uncertain terms, the commitment of the
Republican Party to combat juvenile drug abuse by making drug testing a routine feature
of the criminal justice system, including the juvenile justice system.

IMMIGRATION
The immigration plank of the Platform states that ours is “‘a nation of immigrants”
and that “we should welcome those who follow our laws and seek a better life.” At the
same time, it recognizes that illegal immigration has reached crisis proportions. The
Platform addresses the need to curb abuses from illegal immigration by:

Tightening border enforcement;
Speeding the deportation process of crimimal aliens;
Restricting public assistance to illegal aliens to emergency aid.

The Platform also calls for harsher penalties against exploiters who smuggle illegal
aliens and those who profit from the production of false documents while expressing
opposition to implementation of a national ID system.

oee@

