What People are Saying About Proposition 204

“California's agricultural-based economy will receive a big boost from Proposition 204. It will ensure a
more reliable water supply to farms and cities — especially during drought years. And if will provide
funding for much-needed water storage, conservation, recycling and drainage-improvement
projects."

Senator Jim Costa
Chair, Senate Agriculture and Water Resources Committee

“Proposition 204 does not increase taxes for Californians, it simply uses existing revenues to improve our
water supply and delivery systems. This is a sound investment which will help expand California's $750
billion economy."

Matt Fong
California State Treasurer

"California needs Proposition 204. This measure contains major environmental improvements. It would
protect and enhance the fragile Bay-Delta ecosystem. It would increase water supplies for fish and
wildlife. And it would provide funding for measures to encourage water conservation and recycling.”

Gerald H. Meral, Ph.D.
Scientist and Executive Director, Planning and Conservation League

“Proposition 204 is vital to the continued growth of California by providing a safe, reliable, long-term
water delivery system that strikes the important balance between encouraging continued economic
growth, while also protecting our environment. Prop. 204 will provide the kind of needed infrastructure
to generate jobs for California — today and well into the 21st century."

Bill Jones
Secretary of State of California

“With Proposition 204, we will be able to make major environmental improvements to the Bay-Delta
ecosystem. We will also further water conservation and reclamation. It will help protect the quality of
life for us and for future generations.”

Fran Packard
President, League of Women Voters

“Our economy needs Proposition 204 to continue moving forward. A safe, reliable water supply will
help us bring new industry to the state and it will enable existing businesses to grow and prosper."

Kirk West
President, California State Chamber of Commerce

“This measure is extremely critical to California's economic and environmental future. Prop. 204 will
help provide the safest and cleanest drinking water for California residents.”

Beth Rogers
Regional Water Quality Control Board
