Clinton Record

Pell Grants

= The President has proposed a budget plan that increases
Pell Grants each year over the next seven years. The Pell
Grant increase proposed by Clinton for next year would be
the largest in the program’s 25-year history. Between now
and the year 2002, the maximum Pell Grant award would
increase 33% — a maximum award of $3,128. -

(White House statement, 6/4/96)

Student Loans

@ The President’s Direct Lending program removes the
“middle man” (such as banks) from the college loan
process, saving taxpayers $4.3 billion and giving students
and their families lower-rate loans and flexible repayment
options.

(U.S. Department of Education, 1996)

@ President Clinton has made increased access to higher
education a priority. Clinton recently said that “no person
should ever fail to go to college because they were worried
about the burden of the loans they would owe afterwards.”
By 1994, 62% of high school seniors went directly to
college — an increase from 55% ten years ago.

(Speech to the National Education Association, 7/3/96)

Financial & Tutorial Assistance

@ The President’s proposed budget expands work-study
programs for college students to reach one million
participants within the next six years. The President has
also proposed $2,600 Skills Grants that could be used by
dislocated workers for education or retraining.

(White House statement, 6/4/96)

® While proposing limits on spending in many non-
education programs, President Clinton’s new budget
reaffirms his commitment to expanding opportunity
through access to higher education. His budget would
increase funding for TRIO programs by $37 million.
Various TRIO programs provide 800,000 low-income
students with tutorial help, financial counseling, and
assistance in applying to post-secondary schools.

(American Council on Education report, 7/3/96)

This information is provided for members
of the American Federation of Teachers

HIGHER EDUCATION

National Service

@ The President’s national service program has provided
25,000 students with the opportunity to receive college
assistance — or to pay off existing college debt — in
exchange for volunteering at schools, hospitals, parks or
other areas of their communities.

(Corporation for National Service, 1996)

Science and Research

® President Clinton’s new budget would increase univer-
sity-based research by $155 million. The Clinton budget
raises National Science Foundation funding by 3% and
increases National Institutes of Health funding by 10%
over 1995 spending levels.

(American Council on Education report, 7/3/96)

Arts and Humanities

@ The President fought Congressional attempts to
completely eliminate funding for the National Endow-
ment for the Arts (NEA). In his new budget, President
Clinton proposes to raise funding for both the NEA and
the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH)
to levels of $136 million for each.

(American Council on Education report, 7/3/96)

OUR FUTURE
OUR DECISION

"7
