Asescuss

cs. 2fat 238i 2.2% reduesica of wne paperwerx 3 suscea. A
Fics stacy 2stuMates chat he Clinton Acmunistration mii; acmeve at
2.3 FY 1996, His Aémunisrauon evea exempted the IRS from the Act bya
pine OMS in a fuse 1996 report GAO stated that since 1989, “the IRS's paperwork
SOur‘es Or more than three quarters of the government-wide ‘otal.”

bi
a
5
é
f

As President, 309 Dole wiil rerum sanity and common sense to federal regulations. He
wiil sim:fate the unnecessary cules and regulations, the red tape and bureaucracy that come out
of Washington. He wil free our economy to create more jobs and opportunity for all Americans,
Bob Dole will:

1. Require that benefits justify the costs for ail new major federal regulations, using
independent peer-review, sound science and risk assessment. [ndividuals and
businesses will be able to take agencies to court if the agencies ignore this
requirement.

w

. Require all aew federal regulations to be reviewed and re-evaluated every four years.
Rules that make sense for the problems of today should not become set in stone and
act as barriers to growth tomorrow.

we

Establish a regulatory sunsetting task force, co-chaired by the Director of the Otiice
of Management and Budget and the head of the Smail Business Administration,
answering directly to the President, to evaluate all existing federal regulations and
recommend the elimination of regulations that are out-dated, ineffective, or not cost-
effective.

4. Enforce the Paperwork Reduction Act to relieve Americans of the segulatory
paperwork burden. Rescind the Clinton exemption that allows the IRS co avoid
compliance with this act.

Common-Sense Legal Reform

Bob Dole understands that the American people deserve a legal sysem that protects the
rights of the injured and the pocketbooks of consumers from the greed and influence of trial
lawyers.

Abuse of the legal system impedes economic growth and hurts small Susinesses, limits
work opportunities for chose seeking jobs, and damages the competitiveness of American
companies. The cost to the American people is staggering: by one estimate, lawsuit abuse
imposes an effective “litigation tax” of $152 billion per year on the U.S. economy. (Soure:
Tillingnast, Newwon, & Wares), Lawyers must be made to realize chat our nation’s legal system is
designed to make the injured whole, not to make trial lawyers rich.

The current system encourages lawsuit abuse. Outrageous punitive damage awards—such
as the $2.7 million one person was originally awarded after spilling McDonald's coffee on
