D. la B aiand Bef

“Paula Boland is a great friend of our
local schools. She fought to ee?
class sizes for grade school children.

As a parent, I support her election to

the State Senate.”

Wilbert Smith

Board Member
Former School

“During my years in office, anytime
the city needed something, Paula was
always there and she wouldn’t stop
until she got the job done.”

~ Mike Hastings
Former Mayor
City of Burbank

“Paula is exactly the kind of
representative we need in the State
Senate. She listens to us, cares about
our community and knows what’s
important.”

“When we asked Paula Boland to run
for the State Senate, we knew we
would be getting 4 representative in
touch with the community. She'll be
our voice in Sacramento.

- Mary Ann Plumley
Glendale City Council

oven fighter...

“ i r i
‘Paula is @ P 4 of fighting

she is not afrai
for our causes.

“When we need her, Paula Boland is
there to step in and help. Too many
politicians care only about themselves,
Paula Boland cares about us.”
- Jane Crosby
South Pasadena
Community Leader

21* Senate District
Community Leaders

Dear Neighbor,

Many people have asked why we are so wholeheartedly supporting Assemblywoman Paula
Boland to replace retiring Senator Newt Russell.

Paula is a different kind of legislator...she’s raised a family, built a small business, and dedicated
over thirty years as a community volunteer to make our state a better place to live.

In 1990, Paula was elected to the State Assembly, representing a portion of our district, and she
immediately went to work bringing our voices to Sacramento. However, in 1992, redistricting
moved most of her district to the west, yet she never lost touch with us and never lost interest in
the issues facing our communities.

Paula, a champion of law enforcement and crime victims, was selected by her colleagues to Chair
the powerful Assembly Committee on Public Safety. She has passed many important laws that
are making our communities safer places for everyone, including the “One-Strike” law for child
molesters, lifting the statute of limitations for child sexual molestation, and giving the victims of
rape the “Right to Know” if their convicted perpetrator is HIV positive.

Paula also cares about our kids. She's working to create better schools by empowering parents
through reforms such as charter schools. Further, she also co-authored the legislation reducing
class size for primary grades as well as a bill to give school principals the authority to expel

troublemakers who bring weapons onto school grounds.

Realize too, Paula the businesswoman has fought for workers’ compensation reform, jobs for
Californians and streamlining government regulations.

We believe the choice is clear. Paula Boland’s integrity, experience and genuine commitment
makes her the best choice - the only choice - for State Senate.

Please join us by giving Paula Boland your vote on November 5".
Sincerely,

Wilbert Smith Joan Feehan Jack Hastings
Burbank

Pasadena La Canada

Jane Crosby John Hedlund Mary Ann Plumley

South Pasadena Glendale Glendale

