ECONOMY

THE NATURAL LAW PARTY envisions a
flourishing national economy in which no citi-
zen suffers from unemployment, recession, run-
away inflation, or any other economic hardship;
in which America’s businesses are highly com-
petitive in the international marketplace; in which
the crippling national debt is reduced and even-
tually eliminated; and in which the tax burden is
significantly decreased, enabling everyone to
enjoy greater prosperity and a higher standard
of living.

THE PROBLEM

A healthy economy is the key to America’s
domestic strength and international leadership.
Without industrial and corporate might, the U.S.
cannot remain competitive in world markets,
satisfy domestic needs, or continue to play a
major role in world events. America needs a
strong economy, but our economy faces serious
challenges.

America is $5 trillion in debt—about $20,000
per citizen—and the interest payments alone cost
taxpayers $235 billion in 1995. This debt under-
mines the vitality of our nation and threatens its
long-term economic stability. Congress failed
to pass a balanced budget amendment in 1995,
and partisan conflict has thwarted all legislative
efforts to balance the budget—even in the face
of governmental shutdowns [1].

Moreover, although profits and productivity have
increased during the past two decades, the pur-
chasing power of the average American has
declined significantly. For example, in 1993, the
average American worker had to spend 26
weeks’ worth of wages to buy a car, as compared
to 17 weeks’ in 1973. Many wage-earners—
especially those in lower income brackets—have
limited resources, no opportunity to save, little
job security, and no way to cope with emergency
medical needs. Many families cannot afford a

home or even the basic amenities of life [2]. For
a substantial portion of our population, the
American dream has faded.

Excessive taxes and a burdensome, overly com-
plex, and punitive tax code stifle economic
growth. The seven-million-word tax code is so
convoluted that the Internal Revenue Service it-

‘self has trouble understanding it, and corpora-

12

tions spend four times as much on tax compli-
ance as they do on taxes [3]. In addition, spe-
cial-interest groups have successfully manipu-
lated the tax code by creating loopholes to ben-
efit specific businesses—a practice that results
in corporate welfare and creates disincentives
to economic growth.

In the words of the Kemp commission, the
present tax code “is beyond repair—it is impos-
sibly complex, outrageously expensive, overly
intrusive, economically destructive, and mani-
festly unfair. . . . We believe [it] cannot be
revised, should not be reinvented, and must not
be retained” [4].

American businesses are saddled by the highest
health costs in the world. Health benefits have
become the third largest expense after raw ma-
terials and straight-time pay for most manufac-
turers, and the second largest expense for most
service businesses. For many employers, the cost
of corporate health benefits precludes real sal-
ary increases for employees, and many other-
wise profitable businesses are driven into bank-
ruptcy by these spiraling expenses.

Finally, to maintain our technological edge in
the competitive international marketplace,
American businesses require highly skilled
workers. Alarmingly, our high school students
score near the bottom in international compari-
sons of industrialized nations: 28% of youths
entering the U.S. job market are high school
dropouts [5], and the number of Americans earn-

ECONOMY PLATFORM

ing doctoral degrees has declined in recent
years—yet Congress has cut funding for student
loans. America therefore faces a creativity chal-
lenge that must be solved for our country to
maintain its domestic and economic strength.

THE SOLUTION

Boosting national creativity—In today’s infor-
mation-based economy, intelligence and creativ-
ity (i.e., innovation and ideas) drive economic
growth. Clearly, America’s most precious natu-
ral resource is our human resource—the unlim-
ited creative potential of our 260 million citi-
zens. Given today’s low test scores and high
dropout rates, the most crucial economic strat-
egy that government can adopt is to harness
America’s untapped creativity. The Natural Law
Party strongly advocates proven educational, job
training, and apprenticeship programs that
develop intelligence and creativity, prevent
school dropouts, and bring life into accord with
natural law. Only the full utilization of our hu-
man resource through the Natural Law Party’s
fundamental commitment to education will
ensure America’s competitiveness and future
leadership in the family of nations. (For a com-
plete discussion of the Natural Law Party’s edu-
cational programs, see our “Education” section.)

Lowering taxes—The most powerful fiscal ac-

_ tion our government can take to stimulate the

economy is to lower taxes. The Natural Law
Party can cut taxes deeply—and responsibly—
without adding to the deficit or cutting essential
services. Many parties have promised lower
taxes, but have been unable to fulfill these prom-
ises due to the depth and complexity of prob-
lems faced by government. The Natural Law
Party, through its cost-effective solutions to
crime, spiraling health costs, and other costly
social problems, will save the nation hundreds
of billions of dollars annually. On this basis, the
Natural Law Party can offer a realistic strategy
for significant tax reduction that protects the
integrity of our important social programs.

13

One simple and viable way to implement across-
the-board tax cuts is through a low flat tax. The
Natural Law Party has designed a low flat tax
that includes an exemption for America’s poor
and lower-income families. Beginning in 1997
at 18%, our tax rate would fall to 10% by 2002
as the Natural Law Party’s cost-effective solu-
tions to the nation’s problems began to bear fruit
[6] (see table on page 15). The Natural Law
Party’s low flat tax would propel the economy
into a growth phase. This. strong economic
growth, with its associated increase in govern-
ment revenues, combined with the savings from
our cost-effective solutions, would balance the
budget by 1999. This proposal would also re-
duce the size and scope of the IRS, eliminate
loopholes for the wealthy, and put an end to cor-
porate welfare.

In addition to our flat tax proposal, the Natural
Law Party is also continuing to study alterna-
tive tax options, such as a consumption tax, that
might decrease the tax burden for Americans.
We concur with the Kemp commission’s funda-
mental requirements for a new tax code: fair-
ness, simplicity, neutrality, visibility, and stabil-
iti 7A

Overhauling the Federal Reserve Board—
Since recent administrations have been unwill-
ing to employ meaningful fiscal policy through
tax cuts and reduced spending, monetary policy
has been the only available means of control-
ling both economic growth and inflation. Thus,
in an effort to control inflation, the Federal Re-
serve Board has used monetary policy (prima-
rily the manipulation of interest rates) to pre-
vent economic growth of more than 2.5% per
year. This sluggish growth rate is responsible for
economic stagnation, unemployment, and the
declining real wage for most American workers.

By cutting taxes, the Natural Law Party offers a
strong fiscal stimulus to economic growth while
keeping inflation in check with appropriate mon-
etary policy, thereby ensuring price stability.
