Can we count on the two political parties? Can we count on the two political parties to
solve these problems? They are the problem, right?

Now, if you got a friend that’s drinking too much, the first thing he’s got to do is admit it
right? They won’t admit we have a problem and they cannot come up with real solutions.
Instead of giving you advice, they hire professional speech writers and seek help from
Hollywood’s finest to manipulate you into casting an emotional vote and boy, has it been
working. We’re going to get the facts out to the American people, and we’re going to kill
that little snake this time, right?

Well, wait a minute. Surely the President’s huge tax increase in 1993 will balance the
budget and we’ll live happily ever after. No. Look at this slide and you will see that it’s a
little trick. The deficit kind of floats in there until the year 2000. That’s two terms in the
White House, and then it takes off like a rocket. Ross, where did you get those numbers?
Those are official government numbers.

Next let’s go to page 25 — if you’re still not convinced we have to act — in the President’s
1995 budget. You will find that he predicts the next generation to be born, a little baby
born tonight, your children and grandchildren, will pay an 82 percent tax rate. That is the
end of the American Dream. It’s now up to 84 percent. You don’t give the people
negative information, so you quit printing it in the budget.

Now, can we agree if nothing else will motivate you on a bad day, that will. Are we going
to pass this burden onto our children and grandchildren? The Office of Management and
Budget forecasts after the big tax increase that the national debt in the year 2020 will be
increasing at the rate every year of $1.4 trillion, It’s just five trillion now. It will be
going up $1.4 trillion. You say what about in 2030? By then it will be going up to $4.1
trillion a year, or 4/5 of the entire debt today.

Has all this debt benefited the people? We should be in Utopia, right? The standard of
living is down for 4 out of 5 Americans. Many workers who were making $440 a week
are now making $270 a week if they have a job. After taxes, two paychecks today with a
man and a wife both working to give the children a middle class life are worth about the
purchasing power of a single paycheck 25 years ago. Conclusion: Over the last 35 years,
we tried big government. It didn’t work. We can’t keep on this routine. The two parties
you say who gave us this five trillion dollar debt? Neither party takes responsibility but
there was nobody else there.

Okay. Do you remember in the Presidential debate in 1992 they were saying I didn’t have
any experience. I said, you’re right. I don’t have any experience running up a $5 trillion
debt, and I don’t want to. How big is $5 trillion? Nobody can relate to it. Here’s a way
you figure it out. We don’t have five trillion dollars of currency in print, and I think if
you took all the money in existence to go pay the debt, you wouldn’t have five trillion
dollar. That let’s us know that’s too much debt. Now that is nothing compared to what
