HMO Casualty of the Day

September 20, 1996

Child with brain tumor denied access to pediatric specialist, denied medication.
(Told by Sarah’s mother, Brenda Pedersen, RN.)

Sarah was born with a brain tumor. At the age of three her doctors began a course of aggressive treatment, including
brain biopsies and chemotherapy. While Sarah's body struggled to fight her disease, her father and J fought the HMO to

? provide her with appropriate care.
Her neurosurgeon knew Sarah needed the expertise of a doctor specializing in brain tumors of children. But the HMO
saw Sarah as a diagnosis, not a child. “What difference does it make, cancer is cancer,” I was told when asking for an

appropriate referral. Like all HMOs, ours had a list of preferred providers, and there was no one on the list specializing
in tumors like Sarah’s. Referring Sarah to a doctor in the plan, an HMO representative told me, “We’re not giving you

second best, we're giving you what's on the list.”
I’m a nurse and know my way around the medical establishment, and it took me months to get Sarah the care she

needed. The serious illness of a child is one of the most stressful occurrences in a family’s life, and while we should have
been devoting all of our time and energy to helping Sarah deal with her illness, we were spending hours fighting with

bureaucrats on the phone.

Sarah's dose of Vincristine, a common chemotherapy drug, was denied once by a clerk at the HMO because she didn’t
know the computer code of the drug. People with no medical training are making decisions about the medical treatment
you receive, regardless of what your doctor knows is best.

Once Sarah finally got to the right doctor, her chemotherapy began. Everyone knows chemotherapy causes severe
nausea and vomiting. The same HMO that paid a CEO $895 million in a merger denied Sarah a $54 prescription to quell
her nausea and vomiting because it was “too expensive.”

The HMO won. They didn’t care about Sarah and wished she’d just go away. Her father and I were lucky enough to be

able to switch insurance plans. Not everyone is fortunate enough to be able to change plans in the middle of a medical
crisis. Today Sarah’s six years old and real tired. But that’s okay. She’s just played her first soccer game and is looking

forward to first grade.

Every day until the November 5 election—when Californians will vote on the new patient safeguards against managed care abuses established by
Proposition 216—the face and story of another casualty of managed care care-cutting will be ‘faxed to media, opinion leaders, and to nurse leaders
throughout the state tho will distribute and post the stories daily in lunch rooms, community meetings, and other public places.

For more information, contact Chuck Idelson 415-437-3325 or Jamie Court 310-392-0522
