misdirect into the bosses’ parties. Some unions support Prop. 212, some don’t, but we say Vote
NO on both Props. 208 and 212.

VI. Bond Measures

Prop. 204 (Water Bond) Vote NO
Prop. 205 (Prison Bond) Vote NO
Prop. 206 (Veterans Home Loan) Vote YES

Prop. 204 authorizes the state to borrow $995 million through selling bonds to improve
the Sacramento area Bay-Delta water conservation project. We're all for protecting and restoring
clean water, but it should be paid for by big businesses who use and foul our water in the first
place. But paying for water conservation through bonds places the burden on residents who use
only 15% of the total. Bond loans are paid off through regressive income and sales taxes, not
corporate taxes. We part with the California Federation of Labor’s recommendation on this one
and urge a NO vote.

Prop. 205 allows the state to borrow $700 million to build more jails. Enough already!
California already has the second largest prison system in the country. Building prisons allows
Wall Street bankers, bond underwriters and construction moguls to rake in money at the expense
of taxpayers, inmates and targeted youth. Don't help the state implement 1994's racist Prop. 184
("Three Strikes"). We disagree with labor on this one too. Vote NO.

Prop. 206 is OK because it helps veterans finance farm and home purchases with low
interest loans. It involves no tax increase because the Cal-Vet program is self supporting. But
veterans preferences should also be extended to low income women, the disabled, the homeless,
and anyone else too poor to finance a home.

VII. Once Again on Attorneys' Fees
Prop. 207 (Right to Negotiate Attorneys’ Fees) Vote YES
Prop. 211 (Right to Sue for Securities Fraud) Vote YES

Props. 207 and 211 prevent the legislature from further attempts to restrict access to
attortieys by the public who depends on contingency or other fee arrangements. Prop. 211
increases corporate liability for defrauding investors. Anything that makes it easier for workers
and small investors to hold big business responsible for its abuses is a step in the right direction.
Props. 207 and 211’s most hysterical opponents are Silicon Valley electronics millionaires who
don’t want to be held accountable for either their 19th century labor practices or their sleazy,
behind-the-scenes market manipulations.

VIII. Insurance Company Trickery
Prop. 213 (Limits on Accident Victim Recovery) Vote NO

Prop. 213 is a blatant attempt by the insurance industry to deny pain and suffering
damages to auto-accident-victims whe-are-uninsured- motorists-drunk-drivers or felons. Insurance
companies are clumsily trying to hide behind a “war on crime” facade to deny legitimate claims by
