The Honorable Tom Hayden
April 5, 1995

Page 4

Passage of Proposition 117 in 1990 is not the direct cause of the documented
increase in mountain lion/human conflicts. It appears that mountain lion/human
conflicts began to increase in the 1960s after the bounty system was terminated in
1963. However, scientific lion population studies were not initiated until the mid
1970s as a means of documenting lion population trends. Conflicts were made
more obvious in 1986 (before passage of Proposition 117) when two attacks on
humans were verified in Orange County. However, since 1990, the trend in
public safety incidents and damage to private property has continued to increase
due to the fact that mountain lions are more numerous now than they were prior
to the mid 1960s and that more humans are living, working, and recreating in lion
habitat. Conflicts with mountain lions are not confined to specific areas of the
State, but rather are widespread, with public safety incidents occurring in El
Dorado, Los Angeles, Mendocino, Orange, San Diego, and Santa Barbara
counties in recent years. Given the fact that the current mountain lion population
trend is stable to increasing and the human population is approximately

32 million, conflicts can be expected to continue.

. Question: Has there been an increase in sightings of mountain lions since 1990?

If so, what is your interpretation of the-evidence? Does the Department collect
information about sightings? If so, how is it done? :

Response: Mountain lion sightings reported to the Department have increased
from 59 in 1991 to over 300 in 1994. However, caution must be used in
interpreting reports from the public involving mountain lions. Many reports are
difficult, if not impossible, to verify based on the limited information provided by
members of the public who are unfamiliar. with the appearance and habits of
mountain lions. In addition, under existing Department procedures, incident
reports are completed only in cases wheré the reporting party is concerned that
further investigation or follow-up action may be required. In cases where no
further action is necessary and the reporting party is merely interested in sharing
an observation with the Department, an incident report may not be prepared.
Attention drawn to mountain lions by recent and well publicized human attacks

has most likely increased public interest in lions and may have resulted in more
reports.

In cases where the Department receives a report from an individual who feels
threatened by a mountain lion, a written report is taken which includes the name
of the reporting party, specifics of the incident as described by that party, actions
taken by the Department employee, and any follow-up recommendation. When a
reporting party stresses that they fear for their safety, the Department attempts to
immediately send an employee or other government agency personnel to
