Proposition 208
Campaign Contribution Limits *

Candidate for:
Legislative and
Local Elective

Office”

Statewide

Contributor Office

Individual

Business, labor
organization, and
political action
committee

Political party

No more than
25 percent of
voluntary
spending limits
for each office.
$500

No more than
25 percent of
voluntary
spending limits
for each office.

“Small Contributor $1,000

Committee” °
Lobbyist
Transfer from
other candidate
* Assumes candidate does not accept campaign spending limits. If spending
limits are accepted, then contribution limits approximately double, except
for contributions from political parties.

® These limits are for districts with 100,000 or more residents. Districts with
fewer than 100,000 residents have lower contribution limits.

* Defined by the measure as a committee with 100 or more members, none of
whom contribute more than $50 to the committee in a calendar year, and is
not controlled by any candidate.

Voluntary Campaign Spending Limits

The measure establishes voluntary campaign spendin;
limits for state offices, as shown in Figure 2. Loca’
governments would be allowed to set spending limits, but
the limits cannot be any more than $1 per resident.

The measure requires that before accepting campaign
contributions, a candidate must file a statement
yee whether he or she agrees to accept spending

mits

Higher Contribution Limits and Access to Ballot
Pamphlets. Candidates who accept the voluntary
spending limits are allowed to receive double the
contribution limits shown in Figure 1. For example, a
candidate for the state Legislature who agrees to accept
the voluntary spending limits could receive a campaign
contribution of $500 from an individual, while a
candidate who does not accept the voluntary spending
limits would be limited to a contribution of $250.
Contribution limits from political parties, however, would
not change.

In addition to being allowed to receive higher
contribution amounts, candidates who accept the
voluntary spending limits would be so identified on the
ballot and in ballot pamphlets. These candidates also
would be entitled to place a statement free-of-charge in
the applicable state or local ballot pamphlet. Candidates
who do not accept the spending limits may also place a

Prohibited
Prohibited

Prohibited
Prohibited

Proposition 208
Voluntary Campaign Spending Limits

Pri General
Election Limit Election Limit
State Assembly $ 150,000 $ 200,000
State Senate 300,000 400,000
Statewide office 1,500,000 2,000,000
(other than Governor)*
Governor 6,000,000 8,000,000

* Such as Lieutenant Governor. Attorney General, and State Treasurer.

statement in the ballot pamphlet, but would have to
pay the costs of printing, handling, and mailing the
statement. ;

Restrictions on When Contributions

May Be Accepted

This measure places restrictions on when campaign
contributions may be accepted. For any elective office
that serves fewer than one million residents, no
candidate or campaign committee may accept
contributions more than six months before any primary,
or special primary election. For larger districts and
statewide offices, candidates and their committees are
prohibited from accepting contributions more than 12
months prior to any primary or special primary election.
Fund-raising for all candidates must end 90 days after
the date of the election or the date of their withdrawal
from the election.

Other Provisions

Penalties and Enforcement. This measure
increases penalties for violations of campaign law.
Enforcement of the measure’s provisions can either be
through governmental agencies, such as the state Fair
Political Practices Commission (FPPC), a county district
attorney, or a city attorney. In addition, any person who
resides in the candidate’s jurisdiction would be allowed to
sue a candidate who violates the reporting provisions of
the measure.

Disclosure of Major Donors. The measure requires
that campaign advertisements for or against ballot
measures disclose the name of donors making
contributions above specified levels.

FISCAL EFFECT

This measure would result in additional costs to the
state and local Gremments: Based on information
provided by the FPPC and the Secretary of State, we
estimate that the costs for. implementation and
enforcement would be up to $4 million annually. The
measure includes an annual General Fund appropriation
of $500,000 to the FPPC to partially offset these costs.

In addition, the measure would result in additional
state and local election costs to provide additional
information on candidates in voter pamphlets. These
costs are unknown, but are probably not significant.

For text of Proposition 208 see page 89

