‘EQUALITY AND FAIRNESS IN THE WORKPLACE

STANDING UP FOR WORKING AMERICANS: “... We beat back
efforts to undermine workers’ rights to form and join unions and to
dismantle the enforcement powers of the National Labor Relations Board.
The Democratic Party is committed to prompt, fair, impartial, protection of
workers and the traveling and shipping public by improving the speed,
efficiency, authority, and efficacy of the FAA and the FRA ... We are
working to eradicate sweatshops in the U.S. apparel industry by stepping
up enforcement and public education. We oppose the hiring of permanent
workers to replace lawful economic strikers; we support the President’s
action to stop the government from procuring goods and services from

| companies that do 90; and we support legislation to prohibit the permanent
replacement of lawfully striking workers. We believe in equal pay for
equal work and pay equity.”

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION SHOULD BE MENDED NOT ENDED:
President Clinton is leading the way to reform affirmative action so that it
works, it is improved, and promotes opportunity, but does not accidentally
hold others back in the process. Senator Dole has promised to end
affirmative action. He’s wrong, and the President is right. When it comes
to affirmative action, we should mend it, not end it.

Paid for and authorized by the Democratic National Committes

ATTACKS ON LABOR

The Republican party platform attacks labor unions in several places
calling organized labor “special interest unions,” calls for “barring union
officials from extortion and violence” with the Hobbs Act and accuse the
President of rejecting “reforms to improve the workplace to please union
bosses who committed $35 million to aid the Clinton reelection effort.”

CALLS FOR AN END OF AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: ‘{W]e endorse
the Dole-Canady Equal Opportunity Act to end discrimination by the
federal government. We likewise endorse this year's Proposition 209, the
California Civil Rights Initiative, to restore to Jaw the original meaning of
civil rights.”

