GOVERNMENT SUPPORTED BY NATURAL LAW

don’t make mistakes—they spontaneously up-
hold higher values, and they enjoy naturally good
health and a life free from problems [4].

However, the knowledge of natural law uncoy-
ered by modern science—and disseminated
through our educational system—has been in-
sufficient to enable citizens to live and act in
accord with the laws of nature. Thus, the whole
population is constantly violating natural law,
causing problems for themselves and their com-
munities.

“Violation of natural law” is action that fails to
take natural advantage of the laws of nature, or
that stimulates them in ways that cause negative
repercussions. Smoking is an example of behav-
ior that runs counter to the natural laws that sup-
port good physical health.

Violation of natural law causes stress. Stress has
consequences for both mental and physical
health; the majority of all disease is said to be
stress-related [5]. Stress causes a complex psy-
chophysiological chain reaction in the human
body. Chronic, acute stress leads to an out-of-
balance biochemistry that has also been linked
with anxiety, fear, anger, impulsive violent be-
havior, and substance abuse [6].

Moreover, the combined stress of all the indi-
viduals in society builds up and creates a dan-
gerous, criminal atmosphere in the whole com-
munity. This epidemic of stress has rent our so-
cial fabric and threatens the lives of Americans
everywhere.

The government reflects this social disorder.
Government is a mirror of the nation. When the
country is full of stress and crime, this chaotic
atmosphere has a debilitating effect on the per-
formance of government [7].

To deal with all the problems engendered by
social stress, government responds with laws,
regulations, and costly social programs designed
to protect us from ourselves. Most of the activi-
ties of our government—and most of our tax

58

dollars—are spent compensating for the viola-
tions of natural law by the population. The laws
and programs, however, can’t solve the prob-
lems.

We can have a smaller, more efficient and effec-
tive government, one that is capable of solving
problems. Such a government would function
in alliance with natural law.

THE SOLUTION

The best government is “nature’s government” —
natural law, which governs the universe with
perfect order and without a problem. Nations can
govern themselves with this same perfection in
administration [8].

The most effective way governments can deal
with problems is to prevent them in the first
place—by enabling people to stop violating natu-
ral law. How? Not through legislation, but
through education that brings the life of every
citizen, and the nation as a whole, into harmony
with natural law.

How does one learn to think and act in accord
with natural law? Understanding specific laws
of nature (for example, learning about the health
risks of smoking) is helpful. But the laws of na-
ture are too vast and complex to be fully com-
prehended intellectually. And intellectual under-
standing alone is not enough to guarantee life in
accord with natural law. A new kind of educa-
tion is needed that will enable every citizen to
live—and every government to function—spon-
taneously in harmony with natural law.

The most modern and most ancient understand-
ings of natural law describe a universal level of
nature’s intelligence underlying all forms and
phenomena in the universe, including the human
mind and body. Modern physics has glimpsed
this unified source of all the laws of nature. The
oldest tradition of knowledge of natural law, the
Vedic tradition of India, describes this universal
level of nature’s intelligence and states that it
can be located—and accessed—at the deepest

GOVERNMENT SUPPORTED BY NATURAL LAW

level of the human mind, at the level of pure
consciousness [9].

For thought and action to be in tune with natural
law, it is necessary to experience and develop
pure consciousness. This is not the commonly
understood idea of “consciousness-raising”—be-
coming more sensitive to or knowledgeable
about issues. Pure consciousness is the funda-
mental level of awareness, the basis of all think-
ing and behavior. It is the deepest level of natu-
ral law in the individual, which is identical with
the deepest level of natural law that administers
the entire universe. Developing consciousness
means connecting individual life with this ho-
listic value of natural law—with nature’s gov-
ernment [10].

1. To bring the life of individuals into accord
with natural law, education must provide a tech-
nique to give them direct access to the holistic
value of natural law in pure consciousness.

One such technique identified by science is the
Transcendental Meditation® program taught by
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. The Transcendental
Meditation technique (which originates in the
Vedic tradition) is a simple, natural, effortless
procedure that allows the conscious mind to
settle down and directly experience pure con-
sciousness—the simplest form of human aware-
ness, where consciousness is open to itself.

This experience creates a unique state of restful
alertness in mind and body, which dissolves ac-
cumulated stress and fatigue while developing
the individual’s latent creative potential and abil-
ity to think and act in tune with natural law.

Extensive scientific research has documented the
many positive effects of bringing individual con-
sciousness into harmony with natural law. More
than 500 studies, conducted at over 200 inde-
pendent universities and research institutions,
have shown that these techniques increase indi-
vidual intelligence and creativity, reduce stress
and stress-related behavior such as anxiety, hos-

59

tility, and aggression, and improve mental and
physical health [11].

The research shows that as individuals practice
this technique and gain intimate familiarity with
the holistic value of natural law in their own
consciousness, they spontaneously begin to think
and act more in harmony with the laws of na-
ture that support health and well-being for them-
selves and their social environment. They are
less inclined to violate these natural laws. Rel-
evant findings include improved health and re-
duced health care costs [12], decreased drug, al-
cohol, and tobacco abuse [13], decreased crimi-
nal recidivism [14], and improved psychologi-
cal and moral development [15].

The Natural Law Party strongly recommends
that this program for developing consciousness
be incorporated into our educational system, so
‘that every student learns from an early age how
to live in accord with natural law. In addition,
rehabilitation and law enforcement agencies
should immediately adopt this successful ap-
proach to reducing crime and substance abuse.

2. To fully address social problems, governments
must reduce social stress by bringing the whole
society into accord with natural law.

Society as a whole has a collective conscious-
ness, which is the sum of the consciousness of
all its individual members. Individual conscious-
ness influences collective consciousness, and in
turn is influenced by it [16].

If collective consciousness can be brought in
tune with natural law, the whole population will
cease to violate the laws of nature, social stress
will be reduced, and problems such as crime and
violence will automatically decrease. Moreover,
the whole society will enjoy support of natural
law for the health, happiness, and success of
every citizen [17].

Research verifies that one powerful and success-
ful program to reduce stress in collective con-
sciousness and promote social harmony and
