8. Patient Protection Act: Prop 216

ARTICLE 12

A. Creates an independent non-profit consumer watchdog association funded by esa contributions, and governed

by a board with a majority elected by consumers who join.

A. Grants this consumer association the power to advocate on behalf of individuals or groups of patients, and to publish
reports on quality of service provided by HMOs, hospitals, nursing homes, and other health care businesses.

A Acts as a check on the health care industry’s business practices, working to ensure that profit motives do not diminish

the standard of care and endanger the lives of patients.

A Notice of this organization, providing membership « and contribution information, shall be enclosed in maslings to
consumers from every health care business with more than fifty employees.

CONSUMER ASSOCIATION IS A NECESSARY
WATCHDOG FOR THE HMO INDUSTRY

A The Department of Corporations, one of a confusing |
‘patchwork of state regulatory agencies, is a prime example of
the inability of the state to protect consumers’ rights and
patients’ safety.
> In the past twenty years, the Department of Corporations
(DOC) has issued only one fine against an HMO for violat-
ing patient care standards — a fine which still has not been
paid. The DOC has failed to inspect each HMO at least once
every five years, as mandated by law; three of the largest
HMOs have never been auditéd. (Michael A. Hiltzik and
David R. Olmos, “State Widely Criticized for Regulation of
HMOs,” L.A. Times, Aug. 28, 1995)

A HMOs regularly violate current state regulations without
repercussions.

> A current Department of Corporations regulation
requires that administrative costs for HMOs should not
exceed 15% of their budget. Yet in 1994 the following HMOs
violated the rule and spent excessive amounts on paper
pushing, reducing the funds available for direct patient care:

CareAmerica 19.1% MetLife 20.9%
Coast Health Plan 30% National Health Plan 19.2%
HMO California 29.7% Soan Health 21.4%

(California Medical Association, Knox-Keene Health Plan
Expenditures Summary, 1994-1995)

> “Health insurance is a voluntary benefit offered by
employers and there is no federal oversight or regulation.”
(Robert Rosenblatt, “Doctors; HMOs Clash at Hearing on
“Gag Rules,” L.A. Times, May 31, 1996)

“The mere existence (of the initiative) is jarring in a state where

managed care has prospered for decades virtually unchecked,
thanks to intensive lobbying and a business community eager
to rein in spiralling health-care costs.” (Eric Schine, “In

California, It’s Hell No, HMO!;,” Business Weekly, May 20, 1996)

A Ralph Nader-backed Consumer Boards have been very
effective in other states.

> Consumer utility boards in Illinois, Oregon and Wisconsin
have been an effective, democratic, broad-based counterbal-
ance to industry power. Oregon’s CUB was created in 1984
by a Nader-backed referendum. The ballot campaign was
backed by a coalition of consumer groups which succeeded in
spite of the utility companies outspending them 40-to-1.

The Wisconsin CUB, the largest consumer group in the state
with 120,000 members, has intervened in over 50 rate cases
and is credited with saving ratepayers $81 million in the last
18 months alone. Wisconsin ratepayers saved $100 for every
$1 they invested in the CUB.

The Illinois CUB, with 160,000 members, has saved Illinois
taxpayers more than $3 billion since 1983 by challenging utility
rate hikes, and has been successful in educating rate payers on
conservation issues and how to save money on services. This is
the model for the Patient Protection Act’s Health Care Consumer
Association. (Phyllis Turner, “Strength in Numbers: The Growing
Power of Citizen Utility Boards,” Public Citizen, Jan./Feb. 1994)
