CCRI OFFICIAL TEXT

(a) The state shall not discriminate against,
or grant preferential treatment to, any indi-
vidual or group on the basis of race, sex, color,
ethnicity, or national origin in the operation
of public employment, public education, or
public contracting.

(b) This section shall apply only to action taken
after the section’s effective date.

(c) Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as
prohibiting bona fide qualifications based on sex
which are reasonably necessary to the normal
operation of public roy ere public education,
or public contracting.

(d) Nothing in this section shall be interpreted. as
invalidating any court order or consent decree
- which is in force as of the effective date of this
section.

(e) Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as
prohibiting action which must be taken to estab-
lish or maintain eligibility for any federal program,
where ineligibility would result in a loss of federal
funds to the state.

(f) For the purposes of this section, “state” shall

include, but not necessarily be limited to, the state

itself, any city, county, city and county, public uni-

versity system, including the University of Cali-

fornia, community college district, school district,

special district, or any other political subdivision

or governmental dedgee de get of or within the
state.

(g) The remedies aveliable e violations of this
section shall be the same, regardless of the in-
jured party's race, sex, color, ethnicity, or national
origin, as are otherwise available for ‘violations of |
then-existing California antidiscrimination law.

(h) This section shall be self-executing. If any
part or parts of this section are found to be in
conflict with federal law or the United State Con-
stitution, the section shall be implemented to the
maximum extent that federal law and the United
States Constitution permit. Any provision held in-
valid shall be severable from the femaingg Pele
tions of this section. - ;

Why is CCRI needed?

To end the regime of race- and sex-based quo-
tas, preferences and set-asides now govern-
ing state employment, contracting and edu-
cation. The noble goal of the Civil Rights Act
of 1964 — equality before the law— has been
twisted into government-sanctioned discrimi-
nation. This system violates the fundamen-
tal principle of equal protection of the law
against discrimination on the basis of the im-
mutable characteristics of race, sex, color,
ethnicity or national origin. CCRI is needed
to end this wasteful, divisive system.

Who supports CCRI?

CCRI is a grassroots initiative authored by
DR. TOM WOOD, Executive Director of the
California Association of Scholars* and DR.
GLYNN CUSTRED, professor of anthropol-
ogy at California State University, Hayward.*
CCRI is supported by a broad coalition of
Californians who believe in equality before
the law. This ideal cuts across the bound-
aries of race and sex, of party and ideology.

* Title for identification purposes only

Who opposes CCRI?

Anentire industry has grown up around gov-
ernment preference and set-aside programs
involving hundreds of special interest law-
yers and ‘diversity’ consultants, those in busi-
ness who profit by the racial and ethnic spoils
system which has been created as well as po-
litical organizations which thrive on the divi-
sive identity politics of race, gender and eth-
nic affiliation.

What will CCRI do?

CCRI prohibits the state of California and lo-
cal governments from discriminating against,
or granting preferential treatment to any in-
dividual or group on the basis of race, sex,
color, ethnicity, or national origin in public
employment, public education, or public con-
tracting.

What will CCRI not do?
CCRI will:

* NOT abolish non-discriminatory
affirmative action programs by state
and local governments.

* NOT impede the enforcement of
anti-discrimination laws, or efforts to
include previously excluded citizens.

* NOT apply to private sectot programs.

* NOT abolish programs where sex is a
necessary distinction.

* NOT invalidate court orders or consent
decrees in force when CCRI takes effect.

* NOT tender the state ineligible for any
federal funds.

What would be the fiscal
impact of CCRI?

CCRI would save taxpayers money. Govern-
ment bureaucracies administering preference
programs would be abolished. Government
agencies could award contracts on the basis
of the best and lowest bid, not the race or sex
of the contractor.

What effect will recent

Supreme Court rulings have?

Recent rulings by the Supreme Court have
limited government's ability to discriminate
on the basis of race, sex, or ethnicity. These
decisions are important steps in the right di-
rection, but as the justices themselves agree,
these decisions do not categorically strike
down all preferential policies.

Further progress towards fully dismantling
preferential policies and programs will require
grassroots political effort; indeed, some of the
recent judicial gains may be lost in the ab-
sence of effective political activity. The judi-
ciary itself is signalling that this is the case.
Although we do not agree with her opinion,
Justice Ginsburg, who has been sympathetic
to preferential policies, recently wrote in a nar-
rowly decided case, "In view of the attention
the political branches are currently giving af-
firmative action, I see no compelling cause of
the intervention the court has made in this
case... I would not disturb the programs chal-
lenged in this case, and would leave their im-
provement to the political branches."

The challenge to fully eradicate quotas, pref-
erences and discrimination based on race, sex,
or ethnicity now lies within the political pro-
cess. Each of us must act now.

JOIN THIS HISTORIC GRASSROOTS
EFFORT TODAY BY VOLUNTEERING

YOUR TIME AND FINANCIAL SUPPORT
to CCRI.

