(FPE letter)

Dear Member,

To some people, government has become a dirty word. Even worse, people like you who work
in the government sector are increasingly being used as a scapegoat for citizens’ unhappiness.

We must put a stop to this practice, and we can take the first step on Tuesday, November 5.
On that day, we need to elect candidates who recognize the contributions that public employees
make. We also need to elect candidates at all levels who will provide us with the respect and
rewards we deserve — candidates who will stand with us, not turn against us.

Public employees must forget the personalities and look at the issues. The presidential election
is a good place to start. When it comes to the issues that affect us, there is a world of differ-
ence between President Clinton and Senator Dole:

™ Today, the federal budget deficit is less than half as large as it was when President Clinton
took office. The President has cut the deficit without sacrificing important investments in health
care, education, and the environment. Clinton vetoed House Speaker Newt Gingrich’s budget
plan — the Gingrich plan called for drastic cuts in these key areas. The cuts (labelled as “‘ block
grants”) would have dumped huge, new responsibilities on state and local governments without
the funds needed to carry out these tasks. To address this emergency, states could have been
forced to cut other state programs and lay off employees. Bob Dole voted for the Gingrich
budget plan. But President Clinton stood his ground.

@ President Clinton defeated attempts by Dole and others in Congress to eliminate both the U.S.
Departments of Commerce and Education. This would have had a ripple effect. State and local
programs and agencies which are funded through these federal departments would have been
severely cut back or eliminated altogether. Bob Dole supported efforts to eliminate both depart-
ments. In his recently re-issued autobiography, Dole restates his intention to shut down the U.S.
Department of Education.

@ In one of his first.official acts, President Clinton signed the Family and Medical Leave Act,
allowing working people to take unpaid leave for the birth of a newborn or to care for a family

member who is ill. Clinton opposes a proposal by Speaker Gingrich to remove state and local
government employees from coverage under the Act. Between 1991 and 1993, Bob Dole voted

against the Family and Medical Leave Act three different times.

@ President Clinton has issued new standards to cut chemical wastes and emissions. Clinton’s
Brownfields initiative would clean up and redevelop toxic waste sites. Bob Dole has a poor
record on environmental safety and health. Dole supported the budget plan that would have
crippled the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act. For votes cast in 1996 before he left the
Senate, the League of Conservation Voters gave Dole a rating of ‘0.’

These records speak for themselves, and they explain why the Federation of Public Employees/
AFT has voted to endorse President Clinton for re-election. | urge you to consider these issues
as you cast your vote. So much is at stake. Thank you.

In solidarity,

[Your name], President
[Name or initials of FPE Local]
