Forbes

FOR PRESIDENT

STEVE FORBES
BIOGRAPHY

Steve Forbes is President and Chief Executive Officer of Forbes Inc. and Editor-
in-Chief of Forbes magazine, the nation’s foremost business magazine. In 1994, for the
third consecutive year, Forbes carried more advertising pages than any other magazine in
America. No other biweekly publication can claim this achievement.

Mr. Forbes is also Chairman of Forbes Newspapers, a New Jersey-based chain of
suburban weeklies, and American Heritage magazine, both company subsidiaries.

Mr. Forbes assumed his current position in February of 1990. Since that time,
Forbes Inc. has launched the supplements Forbes FYI and Forbes ASAP, foreign editions
of Forbes magazine, in addition to the American Heritage Custom Publishing Group and
the quarterly Forbes Media Critic.

Mr. Forbes writes editorials for each issue of Forbes under the heading “Facts and
Comment.” A widely respected economic prognosticator, he has appeared on many
national news programs including “The MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour,” “The Nightly
Business Report” and “Wall Street Week.”

Mr. Forbes is the only writer to have won the highly prestigious Crystal Owl
award four times. The prize was given by USX Corporation to the financial journalist
whose economic forecasts for the coming year proved to be most accurate.

In 1985, President Reagan named Mr. Forbes Chairman of the bipartisan Board
for International Broadcasting, which oversees Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty. He
was reappointed by President Bush and served in the post until 1993. He oversaw the
operation of Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty when they broadcast behind the Iron
Curtain and won the thanks of Poland’s Lech Walesa as the critical asset in the struggle
for freedom against communism.

In December of 1993, Mr. Forbes was elected Chairman of the Board of Directors
of Empower America, a grass roots political reform organization founded by Jack Kemp,
Bill Bennett and Jeane Kirkpatrick.

On September 22nd, Steve Forbes announced his candidacy for President of the
United States. He was joined at the announcement by his wife, Sabina, their five
daughters, his three brothers, his sister and their families.

1400 Rt. 206 North * PO Box 1009 *« Bedminster, New Jersey 07921 * 908-781-5111 * 1-800-820-6300
E-Mail: forbes@forbes96.com * www.forbes96.com

Paid for by Forbes for President Committee, Inc. Contributions are not deductible as charitable contributions for federal tax purposes.
