BALANCE * THIRD V WENSEES 1996 ASSOCIATION FOR CALIFORNIA TORT REFORM

How the Washington Post Sees It

The Washington Post, editorializing on President
Clinton’s product liability reform veto, said “...reformers
have been successfully blocked by a group of wealthy and
powerful professionals who are the primary beneficiaries of
the current arbitrary system...”

“Lawyers usually collect one-third or more of the
damages in a product liability case, whether the lawsuit is
settled or goes to trial. Of course they want the present
high-stakes rules to be preserved. Defeating this reform
has been at the top of their priority list for a long time, and
they have contributed substantially to candidates, including
the president, who see things their way.”

STUDIES OF NOTE

Scientists: Lawsuits Hurting Research

A committee of the National Academy of Sciences has
said the threat of product liability lawsuits is blocking
research on contraception and is urging Congress to enact
litigation limits in this area, The finding is part of a report
issued in May by a 17-member committee of the Academy
of Sciences’ Institute of Medicine.

Women and Legal Reform

When it comes to health and business, women have
been especially hurt by the runaway legal system. ACTR
has published a fact list on this issue which can be obtained
by calling 916-442-2331 or at http://www.actr.com/actr.

Suits Attacking Builders

The effects of speculative lawsuits against builders of
attached housing are outlined in an Associated Builders and
Contractors Magazine article by Johnny Zamrzla, president
and chief executive officer of Western Roofing
Corporation. The article shows how property values and
housing supply are both hurt by lawsuits such as the San
Diego suit demanding construction defect damages far
exceeding the cost of building the condominium project.
Copies can be obtained by calling 916-442-2331 or at
http://www.actr.com/actr.

Wrongful Termination Awards

Jury Verdict Research reports that median jury awards in
wrongful termination suits surged to the $204,310 level in
1995. The previous record since the research firm began
tracking these awards was 1991, when the median was
$152,014. These and other related statistics are included in
a publication “Tips to Tackle Wrongful Termination,”
published by the firm’s parent company LRP Publications
(800-341-7874, extension 274).

NEW ACTR BOARD
MEMBERS

Jim Cathcart and David A. Mulford were elected to
ACTR’s Board of Directors in May.

Cathcart is Vice President of Governmental & Corporate
Relations for The Doctors’ Company in Napa. His
responsibilities include overseeing tort reform issues in the
many states in which the company has a major presence.

He has been instrumental in establishing
California’s Medical Injury Compensation
Reform Act as a model statute federally and in
several states.

He joined The Doctors’ Company in 1990
after a 23-year career as a policy and regulatory
analyst in the California Legislature. He was
chief consultant for two Senate committees, the
Insurance and the Business and Professions
Committees.

Cathcart was nominated to the Board to
succeed Susan A. Wilkinson, who was
promoted to Assistant Vice President of
Communications.

Mulford is Senior Counsel for Bechtel
Corporation in San Francisco. He joined the
company as litigation counsel in 1976 and
worked on assignments in Kuwait, London,
and Indonesia. He returned to the U.S. as
Division Counsel and in 1988 was appointed
Senior Counsel for Litigation.

His responsibilities include managing Bechtel’s
alternative dispute resolution program. Mulford serves as
chairman of the Bay Area Mediation Group, an
organization of 20 local companies formed to promote
the use of alternative dispute resolution in the corporate
community. He is an author and frequent panelist on the
subject of litigation management and corporate dispute
resolution.

Association for
California Tort Reform

The Association for California Tort Reform is a coalition of
citizens, taxpayers, businesses, local governments,
professionals, manufacturers, financial institutions, insurers,
and medical organizations. Founded in 1978, ACTR is the
only statewide association dedicated solely to improving
California’s civil liability system.

Bal4NCE

Balance is published quarterly by the
Association for California Tort Reform.
1201 K Street, Suite 1150, Sacramento, California 95814
Telephone (916) 443-4900, Facsimile (916) 443-4306
E-mail actr@sna.com

John H. Sullivan, President
Ronnie Corrick, Executive Assistant
Fred J. Hiestand, General Counsel

For information on ACTR membership please call (916) 443-4900

David A. Mulford

