e Clinton Record

HEALTH CARE

Medicare & Medicaid

® The President vetoed the budget bill (H.R. 2491) —

supported by Speaker Gingrich and Senator Dole — that

would have cut Medicare by $1,700 per beneficiary by

the year 2002. The same bill would have cut Medicaid

reimbursements, forcing up to 700 urban and rural hospi-

tals to close. :
(Congressional Quarterly, 1/20/96)

@ The Clinton administration has improved Medicare
coverage by eliminating the out-of-pocket costs for
mammograms. Under Clinton, the National Institutes for
Health (NIH) funding for breast cancer research has
increased by 65%.

(National Breast Cancer Coalition, 1995)

Insurance Reform

@ President Clinton has announced his support for legisla-
tion (S.1028) to prevent insurance companies from using
“pre-existing conditions” to deny people coverage. This
would allow working people to move from one job to
another without the fear of rising premiums or denial of
coverage.

(Weekly Radio Address, 4/27/96)
@ The President has vowed to end the growing practice of
“drive-through” deliveries by signing a bill requiring
insurance companies to pay for a hospital stay of at least
48 hours for both the mother and her baby.

(New York Times, 5/19/96)

@ Since affordability remains a major obstacle to insuring
the uninsured, President Clinton has a proposal to address
this issue. The Clinton proposal would limit the ability of
insurers to vary premiums in ways that penalize small
businesses. In addition, insurers could no longer use
factors such as ‘claims experience’ or health status to
determine premiums, a practice known as “cherry-picking”
— attempts by insurers to weed out the elderly, acutely ill
and other potential high-cost participants.

(White House statement on State of the Union address, 1/23/96)

This information is provided for members
of the American Federation of Teachers

Children’s Health

@ President Clinton signed into law an amendment to the
Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) that
helped to raise vaccination rates for 2-year-olds to an
historic high of 75%.

(Child Immunization Act, H.R. 191, 1995)

@ Every single day, another 3,000 adolescents try
cigarettes. The Clinton administration has provided the
states with guidance on how to implement the Synar
Amendment— requiring each state to have and enforce
laws banning the sale or distribution oftobacco prod-
ucts to minors.

(White House statement on State of the Union address, 1/23/96)

HIV/AIDS Care

@ This year, President Clinton signed the Ryan White
CARE Act, increasing funds for hospice care, counseling
and other outpatient care by $106 million over the
previous year. The measure provides services to 300,000
people living with HIV.

(San Francisco Chronicle, 5/21/96)

OUR FUTURE
OUR DECISION

"5
