3 a an NEWS For IMMEDIATE RELEASE

from the CALIFORNIA MEDICAL AssociATION News Bureau
P.O. Box 7690 « San Francisco CA 94120-7690 ° 415-882-5115

September 11, 1996 CONTACT: Ron Lopp
415/882-5115

CMA TAKES POSITIONS ON HEALTH-RELATED BALLOT INITIATIVES
Physicians Vote to Oppose Medical Marijuana Use and Stay Neutral on
Propositions to Regulate HMOs

SAN FRANCISCO — The California Medical Association (CMA) has

taken positions on three health-related propositions on the Nov. 5 ballot. The
CMA Board of Trustees recently voted to oppose Proposition 215, the medicinal
use of marijuana initiative, and to remain neutral on Propositions 214 and 216,
initiatives seeking to regulate HMOs.

In a unanimous vote, the Board of Trustees reaffirmed CMA's long-
standing policy to oppose medicinal use of marijuana until "studies determine
appropriate protocols for the prescriptive use of cannabinoids.” If controlled
studies on medicinal marijuana use prove effective for certain patients, CMA
supports “efforts to expedite access to cannabinoids for therapeutic use as a
Schedule II drug under the direction of a physician." :

“Physicians are committed to giving the best care to their patients. But
good care depends on good science, and we're no closer today than we were 20
years ago in understanding the safety and effectiveness of marijuana as a
medicine,” said CMA President Jack E. McCleary, MD. “Favorable reports from
some doctors and patients on using marijuana to treat disease symptoms all
appear to be anecdotal, and anecdotal evidence is not scientific."

CMA points out that even if Prop. 215 passes, it offers no protection to
physicians who, in good faith, prescribe marijuana to a patient. Under current
state and federal law, a physician is prohibited from prescribing marijuana for
medical treatment. The proposed initiative would exempt physicians from
prosecution under state law. However, federal law supersedes any inconsistent
state law, leaving physicians at serious risk of criminal liability.

“Physicians are ready to do the right thing for their patients. It's time the
federal government, and organizations such as the National
Institutes of Health, did the right thing by studying the medical uses of
marijuana to see if it works and for what patients,” said Dr. McCleary.

(more)

