XL —— City Employee Retirement Reforms
L.A. City Charter Amendment D Vote YES
L.A. City Charter Amendment F Vote YES
Amendment D permits surviving spouses of deceased firefighters and police officers to
receive pension benefits after re-marrying. We support it even though it should include domestic
partners and same gender spouses as well. Amendment F makes it easier for City workers to get
their retirement money, and for natural or adoptive parents of minor children to receive monthly
allowances without having to become “legal” guardians.

XI. = Beware of Privatizing Public Utilities
L.A. City Charter Amendment G Vote NO

This amendment essentially deregulates the Department of Water and Power, a publicly
owned utility, forcing it to operate like a private, for profit corporation. If it passes, DWP could
sell electricity, and “related services and products” (whatever that means), to any buyer, inside or
outside the City, at varying prices. Amendment G would also give city politicians more power to
cut electric rates for corporations. This measure eliminates the purpose of DWP, which is to
provide water and power to the City of L.A. at the lowest possible rates. It is a giant step toward
privatizing a publicly owned utility. Deregulation has always destroyed jobs, lowered wages,
weakened unions and raised prices; and there are no protections against the same thing happening
in this case.

XDI. Once Again on Campaign Reform
County Measure B (Campaign Finance Reform) Vote NO

This is another phony campaign finance reform that hamstrings unions’ political donations
and enhances the bosses’ capacity to buy elections. It’s been placed on the ballot to implement
statewide Props. 208 and 212 (which we also oppose) at the county level.

Vote on November 5!

Attached is a summary of our recommendations: you may take it into the booth with you
when you vote. If you have questions or comments on our positions, do call--(213) 365-1792.

In struggle, .
Monica Hill, Organizer
L.A. Local

Freedom Socialist Party

P.S. If you appreciate getting this election letter, how ‘bout sending-a donation to pay for
postage and other seditious activities? None of the capitalists want to send a cent.
