CEST ST, TOE EY
Section 1. Purpose and Intent.

(a) This measure shall be known as the Health Care Patient
Protection Act of 1996. The People of California find and
declare that:

(1) No health maintenance organization (HMO) or other
health care business should be able to prevent physicians,
nurses and other health caregivers from informing patients
of any information that is relevant to their health care.

(2) Doctors, nurses and other health caregivers should be
able to advocate for patients without fear of retaliation from
HMOs and other health care businesses.

(3) Health care businesses should not create conflicts of
interest that force doctors and other caregivers to choose
between increasing their pay or giving their patients med-
ically appropriate care.

(4) Patients should not be denied the medical care their
doctor recommends just because their HMO or health insurer
thinks it will cost too much.

(5) HMOs and other health insurers should establish pub-
licly available criteria for authorizing or denying care that are
determined by appropriately qualified health professionals.

(6) No HMO or other health insurer should be able to deny
a treatment recommended by a patient's physician unless
the decision to deny is made by an appropriately qualified
health professional who has physically examined the patient.

(7) All doctors and health care professionals who are
responsible for determining in any way the medical care that
a health plan provides to patients should be subject to the
same professional standards and disciplinary procedures as
similarly licensed health professionals who provide direct
care for patients.

(8) No hospital, nursing home or other health facility
should be allowed to operate unless it maintains minimum
levels of safe staffing by doctors, nurses, and other health
caregivers.

(9) The quality of health care available to California con-
sumers will suffer if health care becomes a big business that
cares more about making money than it cares about taking
good care of patients.

(10) It is not fair to consumers when health care execu-
tives are paid millions of dollars in salaries and bonuses
while consumers are being forced to accept more and more
restrictions on their health care coverage.

(11) The premiums paid to health insurers should be spent
on the health care services to which patients are entitled,
not on big corporate salaries, expensive advertising and
other excessive administrative overhead.

(12) The people of California should not be forced to rely

CALIFORNIANS forPATIENT RIGHTS
2372 Veteran Ave., Suite 101, Los Angeles, CA 90064
(310) 441-8511; Fax: (310) 441-8515

560 Twentieth St, Oakland, CA 94612
(510) 433-9360; Fax: (510) 869-2231

Proposition 214

HMO PATIENT RIGHTS INITIATIVE

only upon politicians and their political appointees to
enforce this Act. The people themselves should have stand-
ing with administrative agencies and the courts to make
sure that the provisions, purposes and intent of this Act are
carried out.

(b) This Act contains reforms based upon these findings. It is
the purpose and intent of each section of this Act to protect
the health, safety and welfare of the people of California by
ensuring the quality of health services provided to
consumers and patients and by requiring health care busi-
nesses to provide the services to which consumers and
patients are entitled in a safe and appropriate manner.

ME Oa A FREER AR In a URI
Section 2. Full Disclosure of Medical
Information to Patients.

No health care business shall attempt to prevent in any way
a physician, nurse, or other licensed or certified caregiver
from disclosing to a patient any information that the care-
giver determines to be relevant to the patient's health care.

PET RT SNOT Ve RSPEI FONG Fe SCE i SCP TNE
Section 3. Physicians Must Be Able to
Advocate for Their Patients.

(a) No health care business shall discharge, demote, termi-
nate a contract with, deny privileges to, or otherwise sanc-
tion a physician, nurse, or other licensed or certified
caregiver for advocating in private or in public on behalf of
patients or for reporting any violation of law to appropriate
authorities.

(b) No physician, nurse, or other licensed or certified
caregiver shall be discharged, demoted, have a contract
terminated, be denied privileges, or otherwise sanctioned
except for just cause. Examples of just cause include, but are
not limited to, proven malpractice, patient endangerment,
substance abuse, sexual abuse of patients, or economic
necessity.

ECA PE AA ARSE
Section 4. Ban on Financial Conflicts of
Interest.

No health care business shall offer or pay bonuses, incen-
tives or other financial compensation directly or indirectly to
any physician, nurse or other licensed or certified caregiver
for the denial, withholding, or delay of medically appropriate

1127 Eleventh St., Ste. 501, Sacramento, CA 95814
(916) 444-7195; Fax: (916) 444-7196 in No. 960484
