INTRODUCING THE NATURAL LAW PARTY

Time for Change

Americans are tired of political gridlock, campaign mudslinging, and special-interest
control of our political process. According to a recent Times-Mirror poll, over two thirds of
Americans now favor the creation of a major third political party—more than twice as many
as in 1992, when Ross Perot won 20 million votes. Due to this massive increase in public
support, 1996 is being called “The Year of the Third Party.”

Third-Party Contributions

According to many scholars, 90% of the key ideas that have shaped our democracy, such
as the abolition of slavery and a woman’s right to vote, came from third parties. As former
Chief Justice Earl Warren said,

All political ideas cannot and should not be channeled into the programs of our two major parties.
History has amply proved the virtue of political activity by minority, dissident groups, which
innumerable times have been in the vanguard of democratic thought and whose programs were
ultimately accepted. The absence of such voices would be a symptom of grave illness in our society.

The Natural Law Party is introducing new ideas, new principles, and new solutions. A
vote for the Natural Law Party is not a wasted vote; it is your vote of conscience for a better
nation.

The Presidential Ticket

Dr. John Hagelin, 1996 Natural Law Party presidential candidate, is a world-renowned
quantum physicist and educator who has worked for the past 12 years to introduce into
government cost-effective, prevention-oriented solutions to America’s pressing problems.

Dr. Hagelin received his Ph.D. from Harvard University and conducted theoretical physics
research at the European Laboratory for Particle Physics (CERN) and the Stanford Linear
Accelerator Center (SLAC). He has authored over 60 scientific research articles, including
some of the most cited references in the physical sciences.

As recent Director of the Institute of Science, Technology and Public Policy, a public
policy think-tank in Fairfield, Iowa, Dr. Hagelin headed a nationwide collaborative effort
with scientists from other leading universities and research institutions to seek out, verify,
and demonstrate cost-effective solutions to critical social problems of health care, crime,
education, etc., and shape them into public policy. Dr. Hagelin is currently committing his
full-time effort to his election campaign and to building the Natural Law Party around the
nation.

Dr. Mike Tompkins, Dr. Hagelin’s vice-presidential running mate, is one of the
principal founders of the Natural Law Party. He helped develop the Party’s platform and
ran as its vice-presidential candidate in 1992. He has worked with government for 17 years
to introduce prevention-oriented solutions into government and has edited ten books
describing these scientifically verified programs.

Dr. Tompkins graduated from Harvard with honors in 1970 and received his doctorate
from Maharishi European Research University (MERU) in Switzerland in 1984. He is a
former National Merit Scholar and Presidential Scholar.

Dr. Tompkins served most recently as Associate Director of the Institute of Science,
Technology and Public Policy, helping to coordinate the Institute’s nationwide
collaborative effort to identify, verify, and implement solutions to the nation’s critical
problems.

WHY THE
“NATURAL LAW” PARTY?

Natural law administers everything in the universe perfectly and without a problemn—from
the billions of microscopic functions taking place in your body, to earth’s complex
ecosystems, to the whole of galactic life.

What is the practical use of bringing the knowledge of natural law to government?
Extensive scientific research and decades of experience in the public and private sectors
show that technologies that harness natural law—nature’s intelligence—can solve the
critical problems and improve the quality of life for everyone in society.

Life in Harmony with Natural Law is the Only Solution

This is not an abstract idea. For example, we know that natural, prevention-oriented health
care, which enlivens the healing mechanisms within the human body, is the most effective
way to prevent disease, improve health, and reduce health care costs. We also know that
natural, sustainable agricultural practices are the only way to maximize crop yield and
profitability without poisoning the food or damaging the environment. Policies and
practices that are in harmony with natural law are safe and cost-effective. Practices that
violate natural law, such as hazardous chemical pesticide use in agriculture and medicines
that cause harmful side-effects, can create many more serious problems than they solve.

In every area of national life, there are proven programs that maximize the precious
resources of the nation in a natural way. A majority of Americans would support the
adoption of these practices, which are currently not being used by government. The Natural
Law Party is not beholden to special interests and is not caught in the web of partisan
politics. It will bring these programs to government for the benefit of the present generation
and all future generations.

The Most Precious Resource of the Nation

Clearly, America’s most ‘precious natural resource is the unlimited creativity and
intelligence of the people. This resource has been tragically overlooked by government.
That failure is the fundamental cause of all problems now confronting our nation.
Fortunately, creativity and intelligence can be developed and the life of the individual can be
brought in tune with natural law through simple, universal programs for developing
consciousness. These programs have been shown by scientific research to reduce stress,
improve health, and unfold the unlimited potential within everyone.

Bringing Support of Nature to the Government

America is in the grip of an epidemic of stress. Crime, violence, drug abuse, and other
costly problems have their basis in accumulated social stress, caused by the widespread
violation of natural law. Programs for developing consciousness can be used to dissolve
social stress and bring national consciousness as a whole into accord with natural law. For
example, scientifically conducted demonstration projects in cities, states, and nations
throughout the world show that small groups of people practicing the Transcendental
Meditation and TM-Sidhi program reduce social stress, crime, violence, and conflict, and
improve positive social and economic trends. The Natural Law Party would support any
such effective, field-tested community development program that can reduce accumulated
stress in society, enliven natural law in national consciousness, and bring the support of
nature to the nation.
