5. Delta Tributary Watershed Program- - $15 million

Provides financing for the development of voluntary, incentive-based watershed rehabilitation projects.
The goals of the program include (1) reducing the presence of contaminants in drinking water, (2)
improving riparian and fisheries habitat, (3) improving forest health, and (4) increasing the quantity of
water available from and water retention capabilities of the watershed. This program could be eligible for
matching federal funds if the federal Safe Drinking Water Act is reauthorized. (Benefits: directly rural
mountain counties and indirectly water quality and water supply to bay-delta dependent areas)

6. Seawater Intrusion Control - - $10 million

Provides loans to local agencies to combat seawater intrusion into coastal groundwater aquifers that
provide water for municipal, industrial and agricultural purposes. (Benefits: Salinas Valley, Orange
County and other coastal areas)

15 Lake Tahoe Water Quality — $10 million

Provides funds for the construction of soil erosion control facilities, as well as the restoration and
preservation of environmentally sensitive lands, to improve Lake Tahoe’s water quality. (@enefits: El
Dorado and Placer counties, plus statewide recreational enthusiasts)

Water Supply Reliability
(Chapter 6, $117 million)

This section provides funding for projects statewide which relate to enhancement of water supplies,
improved water management and demand management.

1. Feasibility Projects - - $10 million

Provides funds for investigations into such measures as conveyance of wastewater from the Bay area to
the Central Valley for irrigation purposes; a possible conveyance facility from Imperial Valley to San
Diego; and off-stream water storage in the Sacramento Valley. (Benefits: directly Bay Area,
Sacramento Valley, Sam Diego and Imperial Counties and indirectly bay-delta dependent areas)

2: Water Conservation & Groundwater Recharge - - $30 million
Provides financing to acquire land and develop facilities for groundwater recharge. Priority will be given
to projects in over-drafted groundwater basins. Funds will also be used for capital investments in

agricultural and urban water conservation facilities. The Department of Water Resources will certify that
the conservation facilities will result in a net savings of water. (Benefits: statewide)

7129196
