The Honorable Tom Hayden
April 5, 1995

Page 3

Recent radio telemetry studies of bighorn sheep, deer, and elk in various areas of
the State have documented substantial mountain lion predation on these prey
species in areas where few lions were known to exist prior to 1990. Although
these studies were primarily designed to gain specific information on these prey
species, they have also resulted in increased knowledge of mountain lion
populations. In some cases, there is evidence to suggest that lion predation may
conflict with reaching management objectives for these other intensively managed
species.

. Question: Your background memo indicates that there have been only

eight verifiable records of humans being injured by mountain lions in California
since 1990. Is "injury" inclusive of all threatening incidents or attacks, or is it
limited to episodes that caused medical treatment, bodily harm, or death?

Response: Since 1990, there have been six verified mountain lion attacks on
humans, two of which were fatal. With respect to the total number of verifiable
records of mountain lion attacks on humans, the Department needs to update the
information you originally received. The number of incidents increased from
eight to nine as a result of a March 1995 attack in the Angeles National Forest of
northern Los Angeles County.

The Department defines a mountain lion attack as a case in which it has verified
that a lion made contact with a human which was documented by physical
evidence. It does not include incidents in which humans reported that they felt
threatened by the presence of a lion.

. Question: Evidence was presented ‘at. the hearing that indicated an increase of

attacks and fatalities since passage of Proposition 117 in 1990. What is your
interpretation of this evidence? Specifically, is it a pattern that can be traced to
passage of Proposition 117, does it have multiple causes, is it regional rather than
statewide, or is it conceivably a random series of episodes that requires further
monitoring?

Response: The Department's best evidence suggests that the increase in
mountain lion attacks on humans since 1990 is the result of a large, widespread
lion population coming into contact with a large and expanding human
population. Since lions are predators, and humans can serve as prey, the
probability of attacks on humans has increased in California as both populations
have increased.
