Presider Clinton, the Democratic Party,
and Jewish Voters have forged
an unprecedented partnership of trust. We are
working together to preserve and defend peace
and human rights at home and abroad, to ensure
the safety of our neighborhoods, streets and
schools, to strengthen our economic prosperity
and to provide these benefits to all people —
including those in our society least able to care for
themselves. Our partnership will never forsake
our fundamental responsibilities to
our parents, our children and our neighbors.

“The family is the focus of both
middle-class dreams and middle-class values,
for it is the center around
which we organize child rearing —
our country’s most important
responsibility — and work.

And how we work determines
how we live and what will become

of us over the long run.”

— President Clinton

“
Bases Sait saaPate  N i Se eLtGit NaN he cbs eas ee
Pies aS Pe tar ST a

us Democratic Party and President Clinton have been
working hard to build an economy in which all American
families can share and prosper. Thanks to the Clinton
Economic Plan:

@ More than 10 million new jobs have been created during the
Clinton Administration. This reflects a faster annual rate of
growth than any Republican Administration since the 1920s.
Nearly 60 percent of the
new jobs in 1995 were in

high-wage industries. TI 1E Cc LINTON
@ Unemployment has ECC YNOMY:
decreased from over 7% at AM ERICA 19 BACK

the start of the Clinton
Administration to 5.3%. ON ae RACK

@ The combined unemploy-
ment and inflation rate is at its lowest level since 1968.

@ The deficit will be cut by more than half in four years. The
deficit will have fallen from $290 billion at the beginning of the
Administration to $130 billion
by the end of this year. The
deficit is now smaller as a
share of GDP than any major
economy in the world.

@ Nearly eight times more
private sector jobs have been
a created per month than during
‘CC MCWIiIchL | 3 aah .
L z the previous Administration.

@ Business investment has

President Clinton Addresses Jewish Federation Council grown 11 percent annually —

£G 1995. ee
pperene comes 29 a faster rate of business invest-

ment growth than any other Administration since Kennedy.

@ The size of the federal workforce has already been reduced by
over 230,000 positions; by 1998, 272,000 positions will be
eliminated — giving us the smallest federal workforce since the
Kennedy Administration.
