e In the U.S., between 1987 and 1992 the number of women-owned businesses increased by 43% to
5.8 million’.
e Latinos and Women are the fastest growing entrepreneurial segments. In California, there are over

132,000 Latino owned firms, with 56,700 in Los Angeles alone.®

e Women owned businesses employ more people than all Fortune 500 companies worldwide and
generate nearly $1.4 billion in sales.”

PROPOSITION 209'S IMPACT ON EDUCATION AND RECRUITMENT

Proposition 209 threatens the ability of women to gain equal access to educational opportunities in K-
12 educational programs and public universities by gutting equal opportunity scholarships and
programs which encourage women to attend college and pursue non-traditional fields there.

° Proposition 209 eliminates tutoring, outreach, recruitment, and counseling programs in California
public education. As a result many educational opportunities for women will be eliminated.

e Proposition 209 threatens programs which help women succeed in school and advance to college and
graduate schools, especially in math and sciences. These programs include: Girls Science Network;
Mathematics, Engineering, Science Achievement (M{ESA); College Readiness Program (CRP); and
Early Academic Outreach Program (EAOP).

PROPOSITION 209'S DIRECT IMPACT ON WOMEN

Under Prop. 209 not only will equal opportunity programs be eliminated but other types of programs
which are gender specific will be eliminated:

e Equal opportunity programs include science and math programs for girls

e University and college programs for women’s studies, battered women’s shelters, women’s rape
crisis centers, and medical research aimed at gender specific groups

e Women could lose pregnancy benefits including the ability to transfer to less hazardous jobs when

they are pregnant.

Proposition 209's third clause will allow state and local governments to discriminate against women in
public contracting, education and employment.

Funding and recruitment efforts for girls sports teams will be effected.

Girls sports teams could face elimination.

Women could be denied jobs in certain fields for economic reasons.

Women could be denied jobs because they have small children or are of child-bearing age.

Equal Opportunity Programs Prevent Women from Being Shut out of Educational and a
Employment Opportunities. Proposition 209 Would Gut Those Programs Essential to

Establishing a Level Playing Field.

51995 Report of the Interagency Committee on Women’s Business Entezprise, Expanding Business Opportunities for Women.
SHispanics an Upward Economic Trend by Manucl A. Escalante
San Francisco Chronicle, hening Women's Businesses, Sandy Sohcat, 7/1/96

