HMO Casualty of the Day

September 19, 1996

i
Suzanne Lobb
San Diego, California

"On July 22, 1993, my life as I had known it for the past twenty-eight wonderful years ended.
My sweet, devoted husband died. He didn't die at the had of an assassin's bullet. He didn't
die from an irresponsible drunk driver. He didn't even die from natural causes. He lay
unattended, neglected and forgotten at an HMO hospital and quietly bled to death. In spite of
deteriorating vital signs and complaints of severe pain and abdominal spasms, no physician
was called in. Nursing cut-backs on the floor, due to corporate cost cutting, prevented a nurse
from even checking on Dwight. At the most critical time, after he complained of excruciating
pain, Dwight went unmonitored for over an hour and a half. When he finally was checked, he
was dead. In less than five hours after leaving the recovery room from a routine elective surgery,
my husband died from internal hemorrhaging on his 47th birthday.

The night before, a nurse told me that they were short-handed and just couldn't get around to
do everything they needed to do. I believed in my heart that he was in the very best place he
could be; that he was with the caregivers. And the feeling of betrayal that I have, I will never get
over. My husband was denied the most basic of care, and it cost him his life. If the HMO
system is not changed, people will be forced to hire their own nurses and require their family
members to be with them at all times, because you can no longer trust that health insurance
companies have your best interest in mind.

I know he was in severe pain by the notes on his chart. And I know from talking to a doctor that
bleeding internally is extremely painful. And that's how his life ended. He died on his 47th
birthday alone. I'm angry. I'm bitter. And I'm determined to do everything I can to try and
prevent this from happening to other families.

When collecting signatures in grocery stores for Proposition 216, the Patient Protection Act , I
met nurses who were thankful I was there because they felt they could not do their jobs well
when patients are sent home too early and when nurses are limited in what information they
can share with patients. There is no excuse for a family member to enter the hospital with no
serious problems, and to lose their life because no one checks on you. This is unacceptable. It
destroys a whole family; it left my mother-in-law without a son, my children without a father
and the devastation is just endless.”

Every day until the November Sth election, when Californians will vote on the new patient safeguards against managed
care abuses established by Proposition 216, the face and story of another casualty of managed care care-cutting will be
faxed to media, opinion leaders, and to nurse leaders throughout the state who will distribute and post the stories daily in
lunch rooms, community meetings and other public places.

For More Information: Chuck Idelson 415-437-3325 or Jamie Court 310-392-0522
