CT 10, ‘96 @5:3@ (ET) The Network Project
“Och T1996 75 ce

HMO Casualty of the Day

October 10, 1996

“From Ballerina to Bedridden, Thanks to my HMO”

Cynthia Toussaint, North Hollywood, CA

“Before my HMO willfully sentenced me to a living death. I had a very glamorous life as a ballerina.
Then, I lived my dreams; today, I can only dream of being well enough to get into my wheelchair again.

Reflex Sympathetic Dystrophy (RSD), a painful and debilitating disease of the nervous system, struck
me down in my prime at the age of twenty-one, 14 years ago, For well over a decade, my HMO doctors
have denied me the care I so desperately needed and told me my condition was ‘all in my head’ while
the disease progressed throughout my entire body. Today. at age 35, I am virtually bedridden with
chronic, intractable pain. Pain which | will have to live with for the rest of my life. pain that could
have been prevented had my HMO treated me in a timely manner.

My HMO robbed me of my chance of ever getting well because RSD is curable only if caught and treated
early. I went to my HMO at the early stages of the disease, but my doctor basically ignored my
condition and told me that I would be fine. He told me there was nothing he could do for me. I came
home in tears. My HMO ignored the fact that I was suffering from classic RSD symptoms , such as
debilitating pain which was causing me to literally crawl on the floor with bleeding knees. To this
day, my HMO continues to deny me any treatment. treatment that is available, yet costly. Treatment

they don't want to pay for.

For fourteen years, my HMO has refused me an outside referral for treatment which would give me
some quality of life. They refuse this referral despite the fact my HMO admits that their own doctors

do not treat RSD.

A lifetime ago before I became ill. I grew up believing doctors, above all else, cared about their patients
and would do everything within their power to make them well. Gag orders and greed in the harshest

terms have shattered this illusion forever.

When I was three years old and my parents signed on Kaiser's dotted line on my behalf, unbeknownst
to all of us, my life was gambled... and I lost.”

Every day until the November 5th election. when Californians uote on the new patient safeguards against
managed care abuses established by Proposition 216, the face and story of another casualty of managed care
care-cutting will be faxed to media. opinion leaders, and nurse leaders throughout the state who will distribute
and post the stories daily in lunch rooms. community meetings and other public places.
