he said a democracy can only exist until the voters discover they can vote themselves
money from the public treasury. From that moment on, the majority always will vote for
candidates who promise the people benefits from the public treasury with the result that a
democracy always collapses over loose fiscal policy.

Does that seem familiar to you here? Okay. But here’s the most telling thing he said. He
said the average age of a democracy is 200 years. George Washington, our first president,
was sworn in 207 years ago. The clock is ticking. You are the minuteman. You’ve got to
stop plowing and pick up and get organized and vote in November to make sure that
doesn’t happen. :

The future of our country rests in our hands. We have to decide who we are. Are we a
proud, free independent people? Or in the words of the song, “Someone to Watch Over
Me,” are we little sheep who are lost in the woods, but would be good if we had someone
to watch over us? We are a proud, free, independent people. Shouldn’t we go back to the
principles this great country was founded on that we take care of ourselves? And then,
then we go out and take care of people who can’t take care of themselves and need our
help, right?

Now, we have big government taking care of us. Isn’t that wonderful? But, do they do a
very good job?

We haven’t figured out that big government doesn’t have any money to take care of us
until we send taxes to Washington where the special interests who pay for their
Hollywood-style political campaigns to manipulate our votes then decide how our money
will be spent and that’s the reason you’re not getting your dollar’s worth out of that
routine. Right now we’ve created a government where we have more lawyers inside the
Beltway in Washington than they have in all of Japan. And lobbying is now an $8.4
billion-a-year industry and that’s bigger than the annual budgets of 57 nations. Are you
getting any benefit from that? No. ;

You bought the ticket. You didn’t get the results. In 1995, the elected leaders from both
of the parties publicly shook hands on National Television and agreed to form a task
force on campaign financial reform and lobbying. Remember that? God bless them. They
were going to hit the line and do it because they knew they had to do it to get your votes.
The bad news is they never did it. They just shook hands.

Where I come from, a handshake was worth more than a written contract is today. A
handshake at that level ought to be worth something. After sending us that feel-good
message they went out and spent the year raising money for 1996 from the special
interests. And as we sit here tonight, there’s a big party at the Waldorf Astoria. I know the
room. It may hold 800 people. And I heard over television today they’re going to raise $8
million. I’ll let you figure out what they’re charging per plate for that.
