The Honorable Tom Hayden
April 5, 1995

Page 7

10.

banned by Proposition 117? If so, would you like to employ thinning as a
management tool? If so, do you believe that reducing the mountain lion
population by killing a specific number will lead to greater public safety?

Response: The Department's interpretation of the existing law resulting from
Proposition 117 is that killing an pice number of lions in an area is prohibited
as a management tool.

The option of reducing the mountain lion population in a given area needs to be
judged on the intended objective. If the objective is to reduce excessive predation
on State-listed bighorn sheep to allow recovery, then the action would be a
management tool, as documented by the Lee Vining Canyon example referred to
in #6. In addition, evidence obtained by the Department in 1984-85 indicates
that removal of mature male lions in areas with historic livestock damage
problems as a preventative measure resulted in reduced levels of livestock damage
in subsequent years.

Although reducing lion densities may reduce the potential for threats to public
safety, it will not provide a guarantee against such attacks. Since they are effective
natural predators, any lion could pose a threat. With the limited sample of

six confirmed mountain lion attacks in California since 1990, it is difficult to
specifically correlate attacks on humans with scientifically documented lion
densities. Human attacks have occurred in states where lion hunting is
authorized. However, removal of less;than 10 percent of the lion population,
which is normally the result of recreational hunting, would not be expected to
sufficiently reduce lion densities to result in lowering the potential for human
attacks. From a scientific basis, it would likely be necessary to reduce a lion
population by 25-50 percent in order to reduce competition for food between lions
and thereby reduce the potential for the predatory act of attacking humans.
There is no evidence available to the Department that this hypothesis has been
tested through a scientifically evaluated experiment.

Question: [If sport hunting of mountain lions was permitted as a management
technique, how would it address the question of preventing random mountain lion
attacks in various parts of the State?

Response: Recreational hunting of mountain lions would not be expected to
prevent public safety threats unless it involved removal of a significant portion of
the mountain lion population. This concept is validated by evidenced of mountain
lion attacks in other western states which currently authorize hunting of mountain
lions. As indicated in the response to question #9, it is likely that removal of
