(Higher education letter)

Dear Member,

The 30-year-old federal Higher Education Act is up for grabs next year. This important Act
encompasses all of the federal student aid programs — both grants and loans, as well as
dozens of other programs that support colleges and universities. Who will rewrite it and
how it will be rewritten will be determined on Tuesday, November 5. This is what makes the
election so critical for us.

The people who are campaigning for president have records on these issues that we can
review. In the past four years, here are some things that President Bill Clinton has done:

@ President Clinton vetoed a bill that would have made deep cuts in college grants and
loans. The bill he vetoed (H.R. 2491) was supported by House Speaker Newt Gingrich and
would have denied Pell Grants to 380,000 needy students.

& Clinton’s Direct Lending program has given college students and their families better
loan rates and flexible repayment options — while saving taxpayers $4.3 billion by eliminat-
ing the ‘‘middle man’’ (banks and other financial institutions) from the process.

@ The Clinton administration’s ‘‘national service’ program has provided 45,000 students
with the opportunity to receive college assistance — or to pay off existing debt — in ex-
change for volunteering at schools, hospitals, parks or other areas of their community.

@ The President’s proposed budget would increase funding for Pell Grants in each of the
next seven years. Over the next seven years, Clinton has outlined increases to raise the
maximum grant award to $3,128.

Bob Dole has spent more than 35 years in Washington, D.C., Senator Dole has a long and
detailed record on these same issues. Dole voted against the first federally-guaranteed
student loan program. Dole voted against the President’s Direct Lending program. Dole
voted against creation of the national service program. Dole even voted for the Gingrich
budget plan which would have cut deep into student grants and loans. In his recently-
published autobiography, Dole has reaffirmed his intent, if elected president, to eliminate
the U.S. Department of Education.

Recently, Dole proposed a massive tax cut that benefits mostly the wealthiest Americans.
To pay for this tax cut, conservative economist Robert Samuelson projected in a recent
newspaper article that the “‘bulk of Dole’s cuts’’ would likely center on areas such as
“college loans, public housing, health research’’ and other programs.

Considering both their records and positions, to which person would you rather trust the
fate of the Higher Education Act? Which candidate understands the important role that
higher education plays in extending opportunity to people of all ages? | hope you believe,
as | do, that the best course — the only course — for us to take on November 5 is to
re-elect President Bill Clinton.

In solidarity,

[Your name], President
{Name or initials of AFT Local]
