Our support comes with criticism, but each of the parties below makes it clear that the
profit system is the workers' enemy. Not so with the "Nader for President" Greens. The Greens
put forward a good program of reforms, but Ralph Nader is a weak candidate. He would not
support Green planks on affirmative action or immigration, and he refused to raise money for a
serious campaign. Nader is not a genuine independent; he advocates fixing capitalism so it works
"properly," just like any good Democrat. This is why we can't endorse him, but instead
recommend voting for one of the socialist tickets.

Here in California, the only socialist party on the ballot is the Peace & Freedom Party
(P&FP) with Marsha Feinland for president and Kate McClatchy for vice president. P&FP’s
program is strongly pro-worker, pro-union, pro-immigrant, anti-capitalist, and anti-war. It pledges
to tax the rich to fund jobs, housing, healthcare, quality schools, and to clean up the environment.
P&FP supports Native American treaty rights, an end to discrimination against people of color,
women, lesbians and gays, the elderly, and the disabled. It demands full employment through a
shorter work week, free abortion and birth control and an end to forced sterilization. It calls for
the abolition of the death penalty, the phony drug war and vagrancy laws.

In other states, Workers World Party (WWP) heads our list, though here in California they
have deferred to P&FP candidates. Among WWP's platform demands are jobs or a guaranteed
income for all; free, universal healthcare; a $12/hour minimum wage; no wars, sanctions or
military interventions abroad; and equal rights for immigrants, women, people of color and
lesbian/gay/bi/transgender people. Because of WWP's Stalinism--unqualified backing for
bureaucratic Stalinist regimes and undemocratic practices in the movements--it has never before
won a high ranking from us. This time, however, its inclusive electoral program and vigorous
national campaign warrants support where WWP is on the ballot.

Next we rank Socialist Workers Party (SWP) which has some write-in candidates in
California. Like P&FP and WWP, the SWP champions affirmative action, abortion rights and
raising the minimum wage. It has strong internationalist positions opposing Clinton’s anti-Cuba
policies and calling for U.S./NATO withdrawal from the former Yugoslavia. But its defense of
gay rights is raised only in the lesbian/gay movement, and SWP campaigns are perfunctory.
Though involved in unions, SWP never rocks the boat by trying to get labor to endorse its
candidates or help lift the embargo against Cuba. Where there are no P&FP candidates on the
ballot, we recommend you write-in SWP candidates, listed on our Ballot Recommendations.

For an Electoral Labor Party

Your vote can have a special impact this year because you'll be joining millions of
Americans who are sending a message, loudly and clearly, that we want an alternative to the twin
parties of capitalism--not more market-loving, free-enterprise clones like Ross Perot's Reform
Party and the Libertarians.

The first-ever U.S. Labor Party, founded this last June in Cleveland, could become the
genuine option voters need. The party calls-for-affirmative.action, immigrant rights, a universal
healthcare system, 32 hours work for 40 hours pay, strong environmental controls, improved
