pu

Letter to FNHP members from state federation president

Dear (name of federation) member:

"I was there, fighting the fight, voting against
Medicare -- one of 12 -- because we knew it wouldn't work in 1965."

Bob Dole explaining why he was proud to oppose Medicare from the very start.
Speech to the American Conservative Union, October, 24, 1995

Is access to quality health care a luxury to be afforded only by a wealthy few, or is it a goal
that our nation should strive to provide to all citizens? In many ways, this is a question that will be
answered in the upcoming election.

There are a growing number of candidates for local, state and federal offices who believe that
government should not play a role in the delivery of health care services.

This is most apparent in the U.S. Congress, where Newt Gingrich and his supporters have
consistently voted against efforts to improve health care and expand affordable access. The most
notable of these was the Gingrich attempt to pay for a $270 billion tax cut for the wealthy by
slashing funding for Medicare. But this is not the only example. The Gingrich Congress pushed for
changes in Medicaid that would have denied basic health care to thousands of poor children.
Gingrich and his supporters held up passage of a bill providing portability for health care coverage
to workers who change jobs because they wanted to add a provision to benefit the wealthy and
well-off at the expense of those who really need coverage.

Bob Dole's record on health care is even worse. In 1994, Bob Dole voted against an
amendment to require insurance companies to cover preventive services, such as prenatal care, at
no extra cost. Dole was a strong supporter of Gingrich's attempts to cut Medicare, which would
have forced more than 700 urban and rural hospitals to close their doors.

On at least three occasions, Bob Dole voted against funding for childhood immunization
programs. In 1965, Bob Dole was one of only 12 members of Congress to vote against the creation
of Medicare, a vote he still proudly points out when he addresses conservative organizations.
Maybe this explains why the health insurance industry is among Dole's top contributors.

The good news is that voters have real choices this year. For almost every elected office,
whether local, state or national, there are candidates who are committed to improving the quality of
health care in our nation. These candidates share the view that government has an important role to
play in ensuring avcess to quality, affordable health care for all citizens. This is not to say these
candidates, as a whole, are committed to the status quo. Most recognize that the health care
industry is going through tremendous changes and that government needs to both adapt to these
changes and be vigilant in its efforts to ensure that these changes benefit patients.

The best example of this is President Clinton. With the odds stacked against him, President
Clinton led the fight to make basic health care a right for all Americans. And while his initial
efforts were defeated, they opened the door for passage of legislation on health care portability and
pre-existing conditions.

President Clinton protected both Medicare and Medicaid from severe cuts in Congress.
President Clinton supports legislation that puts an end to drive-through deliveries and has increased
spending on breast cancer research by 65 percent. President Clinton was also responsible for

(continued)
