FAMILY VALUES

THE NATURAL LAW PARTY is deeply com-
mitted to strengthening the well-being of every
American family by restoring the fundamental
moral values that have sustained the minds and
hearts of our citizens for generations. Such uni-
versal family values include honesty, integrity,
productivity, kindness, tolerance, and mutual
respect. By bringing individual and family life
into accord with natural law, we can largely erase
the present epidemic of family breakdown and
moral decay and create a society in which par-
ents, children, families, and society mutually
nourish and strengthen each other in their growth
toward fulfillment.

THE PROBLEM

American families today are under unprec-
edented financial, social and environmental
stress, making it difficult for parents to create
loving, stable homes for their children.

¢ Real wages for average American workers have
decreased since 1973. Due to the much higher
cost of living in 1995, most two-parent families
require two incomes to maintain a reasonable
existence. In addition, the average American now
works more hours than at any time since World
War II—close to 50 hours weekly. Not surpris-
ingly, this economic stress, coupled with the
strain of long work hours, has resulted in in-
creased tension within families, a rise in domes-
tic violence, and a 50% divorce rate for new
marriages. As a result, many children no longer
receive the love, attention, and guidance from
their parents that previous generations took for
granted as essential for moral development.

Families with only one parent face even greater
challenges. Over 25% of American children in
single-parent families live in poverty—yet the
rate of childbirth among never-married women

has been increasing, up to 20% in 1994. Despite
the devotion and hard work of many single par-
ents, some studies indicate that children in
single-parent families are at greater risk for
crime, for drug and alcohol abuse, and for drop-
ping out of school.

¢ Parents today have little control over the nega-
tive influences assaulting their children: school
shootings, drug and alcohol abuse, gangs, pre-
mature sexual activity, and the risk of AIDS and
other sexually transmitted diseases. In addition,
children now watch an excessive amount of tele-
vision—time that used to be spent with parents,
teachers, or other role models.

¢ Parents can no longer guarantee even the most
basic necessities for their families: food, air, and
water. The dramatic increase in poisons and tox-
icity in our environment—pesticides on crops,
air and water pollution, and the potential harm
from genetically engineered foods—all consti-
tute a serious threat to the health of family mem-
bers (refer to our “Agriculture” section).

These financial, social, and environmental chal-
lenges that parents face today have given rise to
an increase of stress in family life. These rising
levels of stress throughout society undermine the
harmony and integrity of family life, so impor-
tant to the growing stability and vitality of our
nation. Other political parties decry domestic
violence, child abuse, divorce, and the break-
down of morality, but they have been unable to
offer effective solutions to these problems.

THE SOLUTION

The Natural Law Party offers proven programs
that address the root cause of the breakdown of
family life today—epidemic stress levels
throughout society, especially in our densely

FAMILY VALUES PLATFORM

populated urban centers. Medical researchers
report an alarming rise in stress-related illness—
including stroke, hypertension, and heart disease.
This same epidemic of stress is responsible for
the widespread growth of “social disease” —do-
mestic violence, child abuse, family decay,
crime, and drug abuse. The most effective solu-
tion is therefore to reduce accumulated stress in
the whole population, so that all individuals, and
especially parents, are able to make the most life-
supporting decisions in their personal lives and
decisions that are most nourishing to the lives
of their children.

The Natural Law Party would therefore support
the permanent establishment of coherence-cre-
ating groups on the national, state, and local lev-
els to dissolve communitywide tension and nega-
tivity. These programs of the Natural Law Party
have been scientifically demonstrated to reduce
crime, violence, and negative trends throughout
society, and to create a harmonizing influence
in collective consciousness, enabling diverse in-
dividual interests and tendencies to coexist with-
out creating conflict between family members
and in society as a whole.

In addition, the Natural Law Party’s cost-effec-
tive solutions to the nation’s problems and pro-
growth economic policies will create jobs, stimu-
late growth, and ease the financial strain experi-
enced by so many American families (see our
“Economy” section). The Natural Law Party
believes that primary-care parents should not be
forced by economic necessity to work, since their
role asparents is vital for the strength and sta-
bility of future generations.

45

The Natural Law Party also strongly supports
the role of the senior, most experienced mem-
bers of our society as the source of wisdom and
guidance for all other members of the family and
the community, and regards the widespread iso-
lation and loneliness of our senior members as a
significant loss to America. The Natural Law
Party supports mentor and housing programs that
can reverse this trend and maintains a deep com-
mitment to protecting the lives and rights of our
country's senior members. .

Most importantly, the strong educational pro-
grams endorsed by the Natural Law Party will
significantly support and strengthen family unity
and the natural unfoldment of each member's full
potential. These programs have been scientifi-
cally shown to develop intelligence, creativity,
moral reasoning, and the capacity for intimacy,
and to reduce anxiety, disease, and drug and al-
cohol abuse (see our “Education” section). Such
outcomes will help different generations of a
family to live together, to nourish each other,
and to establish the harmony, respect, and mu-
tual enrichment that is the ideal of family life.

The family is the source of life for every indi-
vidual, and as such is the primary training ground
for social behavior. The quality of the home de-
termines the quality of civilization. By strength-
ening and reenlivening the family from the in-
side, and by eliminating the stress attacking the
family from the outside, the Natural Law Party
gives parents the opportunity to reawaken uni-
versal family values in their children and thus
secure a bright future for our nation.

