FACT:

MYTH:

FACT:

MYTH:

FACT:

MYTH:

FACT:

MYTH:

FACT:

Proposition 213 will make it more difficult for working parents and low-income workers and
students to get to work and school.

Just the opposite is true! Proposition 213 will make insurance more affordable for students, seniors
and low-income workers and will help economic development. By reducing rewards for people
who break the law, insurance will be more affordable for all Californians.

Proposition 213 is bad for the economy.

Proposition 213 helps businesses that depend on fleets of automobiles and/or trucks, such as car
and truck rental companies, courier services, florists and many others. Small business owners and
large employers alike must insure their vehicles and employees and must pay higher premiums to
protect themselves against uninsured drivers. By eliminating huge “non-economic” monetary
awards -- that’s money above and beyond medical and other out-of-pocket expenses -- for
irresponsible drivers, California’s commercial enterprises can invest more in their businesses,
their employees and in creating new jobs.

Uninsured motorists and drunk drivers who have limited resources will be forced to go to county
hospitals for medical care, and the costs will be picked up by taxpayers.

Wrong. Proposition 213 does not prohibit recovery of damages for medical care, lost wages and
any other out-of-pocket expenses. Taxpayers will be no more liable in the future for medical costs
as a result of Proposition 213, than they currently are.

Proposition 213 will only benefit insurance companies.

Proposition 213 protects people who play by the rules, including victims of crime, insured drivers,
property owners, businesses and “deep pocket” local governments, to name a few. Further, auto
insurance will become more affordable as hundreds of millions of dollars are saved each year in
outrageous awards for people who break the law. That’s why Proposition 213 is endorsed by
Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) , California Police Chiefs Association, California
Association of Highway Patrolmen, Doris Tate Crime Victims Bureau, California Peace
Officers’ Association, Peace Officers Research Association of California, Association for
California Tort Reform, and many others who support the Personal Responsibility Act of
1996.

Consumer attorneys will not have an interest in representing uninsured motorists or drunk drivers
who are involved in accidents if they cannot seek pain and suffering awards.

Trial lawyers recently changed their association name to “Consumer Attorneys of California”
because they wanted to make it clear they represent “consumers.” However, it seems their fear is
actually for themselves -- that the most lucrative monetary award, from which they take at least
30%, would be eliminated for drivers who break the law, and convicted felons injured accidentally
while fleeing from their crimes.
