Going From A
Minimum Wage
To A Living Wage

The new federal minimum wage law, which
takes effect Oct. 1, leaves a lot to be done. When
the law is completely implemented, a full time
minimum wage worker will only be earning 69% of
the poverty level for a family of four.

Prop. 210 takes an important step forward—
increasing the minimum wage to 77% of the poverty
level—but still leaves hundreds of thousands of LA
families far from earning a living wage.

The proposed LA Living Wage Ordinance
gives Los Angeles the chance to bring thousands of
these families up to the poverty level—a start towards
a decent standard of living. The ordinance covers
all workers at companies which receive city contracts
or subsidies. It also requires that these companies
either provide full family health benefits or
supplement employees wages to cover the cost of
insurance.

You can make the difference in moving LA
from a minimum wage economy to a living wage
community:

© Vote YES on 210

© Write your LA City Council representative and ask
them to support the proposed living wage ordinance.
Send! your letter to: City Council c/o City Clerk, Rin.
395, LA City Hall, 200 N. Spring St., LA, CA 90012.

Pav

erty Line for Family of 4: $15,600 annual income

$5.00/b eg Is $10,400 a1

Minimum Wage
Under New
Federal Law

$46,900_

ly of 4

Median Income for a Fami

Second Increase Second Increase Proposed LA Current
Under New Under Living Wage Median
Federal Law Prop. 210 Ordinance Income

Minimum Wage Increase

Prop. 210 would increase the minimum wage to $5.00 per hour on March 1, 1997 and $5.75 per
hour on March 1, 1998. (For details on all the federal, state and local minimum wage increase proposals,
see graph above.) The current minimum wage of $4.25 equals an annual income of $9,880, guaranteeing
poverty. 80% of minimum wage workers are adults and more than 700,000 California families have a
minimum wage worker as their sole support. Since 1976, salaries of top corporate executives have
more than quadrupled and corporate profits have soared, while the minimum wage has actually lost
value. An increased minimum wage will improve the living standard for hundreds of thousands of
Californians; increase the tax base as employees pay on increased salaries; and help the economy by

increasing spending which creates more jobs.

To Get Involved: 213. 380. 8830

Supporters: League of Women Voters, Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund

(MALDEF), CA Labor Federation, Congress of CA Seniors, California Council of Churches

Opponents: CA Restaurant Association, CA Grocers Association, CA Hotel & Motel Association,

CA Retailers Association

EAR VES |
Securities Fraud Protection

Will punish corporate executives, lawyers, accountants
and brokers who participate in securities fraud as well
as attorneys who bring frivolous lawsuits. Will also close
loophole requiring fraud victims to prove they read each
fraudulent statement. Also sets up civil fines for
“outrageous” securities fraud. Placed on the ballot by
securities class action attorneys to increase corporate
liability for investor fraud in CA in the wake of national
legislation limiting corporate liability in federal court.
Supporters: AARP CA Keating Victims, Congress
of CA Seniors, CA Dem. Party, Consumer Federation
of CA, CA Labor Federation

Opponents: Bank of America, CA Chamber of
Commerce, National Venture Capital Association, CA
Republican Party

Coalition LA supports campaign finance reform that would give
everyone equal influence in elections and give the low and moderate income

majority the majority power it should have in a democracy.

Ideally, we could reach this goal by limiting contributions to a level
all people can afford—like $20. Unfortunately, the courts have thrown
out such low limits as violating freedom of speech and ruled that candidates
are free to spend their own money without limit leaving a huge loophole for

wealthy office seekers.

Contribution Limits

Individual and PACs
Statewide Candidates .....
Other Candidates

Assembly ...
Statewide Offices
Governor

Pros. 208 & 212 vs. Current Law

EXRF40Pren

Campaign Finance Reform

In contrast to Prop. 208, Prop 212 moves towards Coalition LA's
goal of giving everyone equal influence in elections by enacting
low limits on all contributions except those from “citizen
contribution committees” — groups that collect contributions of
$25 or less. For this reason, many Coaltion LA members strongly
supported 212. But, the Coalition could not reach the 2/3 majority
required to take a “Yes” position. Some members opposed 212
because they believe it will likely be declared unconstitutional and
mistakenly nullifies current ethics ordinances. Others believe 212
harms progressive candidates and candidates of color because of
a 75% in-district fundraising requirement. See above details.

Supporters: CalPIRG, State and County Federations of Labor,
CTA, MAPA, Jerry Brown, Green Party, Congress of CA
Seniors, ACORN, CA Black Chamber of Commerce.

Opponents: AARP League of Women Voters, CA Common
Cause, CA Chamber of Commerce, CA Repub. & Dem. Parties

In this context, the most effective proven alternative is public
financing—a system where all qualified candidates receive public
money to finance their campaign in exchange for not raising or
spending any other money. This would truly level the playing field
and give everyone an equal opportunity to run for office and influence

the outcome of the election.

Unfortunately, as we explained in our review of the propositions
beginning on page 2, Prop. 208 empowers affluent individual contributers at

the expense of workers, actually moving us away from our goal. Prop. 212,

on the other hand, makes strong moves toward an equal playing field, but
contains a problematic provision. Coalition LA voted to recommend NO on

208, but went OPEN on 212 because we fell just short of the required 2/3
majority to take a YES position. To help you make your decision, we have

prepared the following comparison of the two initiatives and the current law.

$10,000 collected ...
in contribution of
$25 or less

Mandatory, with
backup voluntary
limits If court
strikes mandatory
limits

Accident Victim Recovery

Denies recovery of specified damages to
innocent victims of auto accidents if victim is
an uninsured motorist, drunk driver, or felon.
Funded by the insurance industry and disguised
as punishment for criminals, it is an effort by
insurers to refuse legitimate claims, especially
by the not-at-fault uninsured. Under a fault-
based insurance system like California’s, all
drivers should be held responsible for the damage

they cause, no matter who the victim is.
Supporters: Insurance Commissioner Chuck
Quackenbush, CA Insurance Industry
Opponents: Prop. 103 Enforcement Project,

Harvey Rosenfield, Consumer Action, United
Policyholders

Protection of Patients’ Rights

Like Prop. 216, this will end “gag”
clauses in HMOs that lead to the denial
of needed medical treatment. Both also
require written criteria and exam for denial
of care. Both end financial bonuses to
doctors who withhold patient treatments.
Both mandate minimum safe staffing levels
and ensure confidentiality of all medical
records. Prop. 214 adds protections to
HMO employees from being fired without

just cause.
Supporters: SEIU, Health Access,
Neighbor to Neighbor

Opponents: Hospital Council of
Southern California, CA Chamber of

Commerce
