to whether or not the amendment satisfies the requirements
of this Act.

(b) No amendment shall be deemed to further the purposes
of this Act unless it furthers the purpose of the specific provi-
sion of this Act that is being

amended.

Section 16. Definitions.

The following definitions shall apply to this Act:
(a) “Affiliated enterprise” means any entity of any form that
is wholly owned, controlled, or managed by a health care
business, or in which a health care business holds a benefi-
cial interest of at least 25% either through ownership of
shares or control of memberships.
(b) “Available for public inspection” means available at the
facility or agency during regular business hours to any per-
son for inspection and/or for copying, with any charges for
the copying limited to the reasonable cost of reproduction
and, when applicable, postage.
(©) “Caregiver” or “licensed or certified caregiver” means”
health personnel licensed or certified under Division 2 (com-
mencing with Section 500) of the Business & Professions
Code, including a person licensed under any initiative act
referred to therein, health personnel regulated by the
Department of Health Services, and health personnel regulat-
ed by the Emergency Medical Services Authority.
(d) “Health care business” means any health facility, organi-
zation or institution of any kind which provides or arranges
for the provision of health services, regardless of business
form and whether or not organized and operating as a profit
or non-profit, tax-exempt enterprise, including

(1) any health facility defined herein;

(2) any health care service plan as defined in Sec. 1345 (f)
of the Health and Safety Code;

(3) any non-profit hospital service plans as governed by
chapter 11 of the insurance code, commencing with S. 1149;

(4) any disability insurer providing hospital, medical or
surgical coverage as governed by the Insurance Code, com-
mencing with S. 11012.5;

(5) any provider of emergency ambulance services, limited
advanced life support or advanced life support services; and

(6) any preferred provider organization, independent prac-
tice association or other organized group of health profes-
sionals with 50 or more employees in the aggregate
contracting for the provision or arrangement of health ser-
vices.

(e) “Health care consumer” or “patient” means any person
who is an actual or potential recipient of health services.

(f) “Health care services” or “health services” means health
services of any kind, including but not limited to diagnostic
tests or procedures, medical treatments, nursing care, mental
health, and other health care services as defined in S. 1345
(b) of the Health and Safety Code.

(g) “Health facility” means any licensed facility of any kind
at which health services are provided, including but not
limited to those facilities defined in S. 1250, 1200, 1200.1,
and 1204, and home health agencies, as defined in S.
1374.10, regardless of business form and whether or not
organized and operating as a profit or non-profit, tax-
exempt or non-exempt enterprise, and including facilities
owned, operated, or controlled by governmental entities,
hospital districts, or other public entities.

(h) “Private health care business” means any health care
business as defined herein except governmental entities,
including hospital districts and other public entities. “Private
health care business” shall include any joint venture, part-
nership, or any other arrangement or enterprise involving a
private entity or person in combination or alliance with a
public entity.

(i) “Health Insurer” means:

(1) any health care service plan as defined in Sec. 1345 (f)
of the Health and Safety Code;

(2) any non-profit hospital service plans as governed by
chapter 11 of the insurance code commencing with S. 1149;
and

(3) any disability insurer providing hospital, medical, or
surgical coverage as governed by the Insurance Code, com-
mencing with S. 11012.5.

