ARTLG LES 4 uy

\

A. Requires public disclosure of all information relating to quality of patient care, including: Tada:

> all data and studies used to determine quality, staffing and reduction of services

> financial reports and returns required by federal and state tax and securities laws

> statements of financial interest in any corporate affiliates or subsidiaries .

> a description of subject and outcome of all complaints, lawsuits and arbitrations.

HMOs may deal with questions of life or death, but they are
under no obligation to tell consumers about their day-to-day
operations. They do not have to tell you how they determine
whether you receive needed care, how much money they
make based on those decisions or about any legal actions
taken against them because of cost-cutting measures that
skimped on quality health care. The Patient Protection Act
holds HMOs accountable by mandating public disclosure of
health care quality data, financial information and com-
plaints and arbitrations against the health care organization.

DISCLOSURES ABOUT CONFLICTS OF
INTEREST, RECKLESS COST-CUTTING, AND
WASTE AT HMOS ARE SHOCKING

4 “The rapid expansion of the Managed Care Model is also -
redefining the delivery of health care in ways that cause grave
concern to patients, providers, and the Medical Board of
California. Specifically, the restriction of medically necessary
services...is becoming alarmingly frequent.” (Medical Board
of California, Action Report, Apr. 1996)

A As much as 30% of each patient dollar paid is used for
paper pushing, advertising and multi-million dollar execu-
tive compensation packages. Over the last few years, admin-
istrative expenses of HMOs have more than doubled in some
cases, providing more bureaucracy and less health care per
dollar. (Knox-Keene Health Plan Expenditures Summary,
California Medical Association, Feb. 1996)

A “Unrestricted consumer access to information about doc-
tors, hospitals, and other health care institutions” and “the
freedom to select the doctor, hospital and HMO or insurance

’ plan based about quality and performance” are critical to
help patients protect themselves. (Suzanne Gordon and
Judith Shindul-Rothschild, “Why Patients Need Hospital
Data,” Miami Herald, May 28, 1995)

A Some HMOs skim as much as 13% profits from patient
premiums while denying patients needed care. (Knox-Keene
Health Plan Expenditures Summary, California Medical
Association, Feb. 1996)

A “Some HMOs in California withhold some services from
sicker patients for no other reason than that they are expen-
sive.” (Michael Hiltzik and David R. Olmos, “A Mixed
Diagnosis for HMOs,” L.A. Times, Aug. 27, 1995)

A ANew York Times investigation found that the dialysis
industry uses equipment and procedures that cut costs and
raise profits, often at the expense of patients’ health, with few
rules to assure high quality care, threatening the lives of the
187,000 Americans who need dialysis. (Kurt Eichenwald,
“Death and Deficiency in Kidney Treatment,” New York
Times, Deé. 4, 1995)

4 “Non-profit” HMOs are “not-for-profit” in name only;
some having profits as high as 12.2%. (Knox-Keene Health
Plan Expenditures Summary, California Medical Association,
Feb. 1996)

% O Administrators +++ Physicians

1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995

Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics/Physicians for a National Health Program
