Challenge:
Help E elke ichbeve Gackbity inthe Now,

Won enactment of the largest deficit-cutting plan in history -- cutting the deficit by more than half
within four years.

Provided sound economic policies that have created 10.5 million new jobs — 93% in the private sector.
Brought unemployment down to 5.1% -- a 7-year low.

Brought the combined rate of unemployment, inflation, and mortgage rates to its lowest level since
1968. j

Proposed a balanced budget in 7 years based on Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates.

Made tax cuts available to 90% of small businesses.

Signed the Small Business Protection Act (Aug. 20, 1996) to raise the minimum wage for the first time
in 5 years and to give working Americans the opportunity to lift themselves and their families out of
poverty. ‘

Signed the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (Kassebaum-Kennedy Bill, Aug. 21,
1996) to protect workers from losing their health insurance if they change or lose their jobs and to prevent

. the denial of coverage due to pre-existing conditions.

Increased exports 31% by signing tough trade agreements (NAFTA, GATT) and by opening up foreign
markets.

Highest annual number of new business incorporations since World War II.

Signed the Retirement Protection Act to safeguard the pensions of more than 40 million workers and
retirees.

Proposed a $2,600 job-training voucher to give unemployed workers the freedom to choose the job
training program that is right for them.

Challenge:
To Take Our Streets Back from Crime, Gangs, and Drugs

Signed a tough Crime Bill (Sept. 13, 1994) that is putting 100,000 new police officers on our streets --
44,000 have already been funded.

Signed the Brady Bill (Nov. 30, 1993), which has already prevented more than 60,000 fugitives, felons,
and other criminals from buying handguns.

Signed the Assault Weapons Ban as part of the Crime Bill -- taking 19 of the deadliest assault weapons
off of our streets.

Developed a comprehensive National Drug Control Strategy to reduce drug use through law
enforcement, prevention, treatment, and interdiction.

Imposed a “Three Strikes and You’re Out” provision to put career violent offenders behind bars for life.
Expanded the death penalty to include drug kingpins, murderers of federal law enforcement officers, and
nearly 60 additional categories of violent felons.

Signed Megan’s Law (May 17, 1996) to require states to disclose information about released child
molesters and sexual and violent offenders.

Signed the Violence Against Women Acct as part of the Crime Bill.

Established nationwide 24-hour domestic violence hotline.

Signed the Safe and Drug-Free Schools Act to expand security and to prevent violence.

Signed Presidential Directive enforcing a “Zero Tolerance” gun policy in public schools.

Introduced Operation Safe Home to fight crime in public housing.
