CLINTON
GORE 96

President Clinton
Improving Education

“Education is the work of your lives, but it’s also the work of America’s future. All of these
concerns come together in education because school is where young people can learn the
skills they need to pursue middle-class dreams, especially now when knowledge is more
important than ever to our future. School is also the place where middle-class values taught
by parents are reinforced by teachers — values like responsibility, honesty, trustworthiness,
hard work, caring for one another and our natural environment, and good citizenship.”

President Bill Clinton

Our challenge is to provide Americans with the educational opportunities we need for a new
century. The Clinton Administration is fighting to provide Americans with the skills and
training they need to get better jobs, earn higher incomes, and enjoy a brighter future. In today’s
global economy, President Clinton is committed to keeping America competitive by ensuring
that students get the education, training, and know-how they need to compete and succeed.

The President has compiled an impressive record of achievement in improving the nation's
education system by introducing a series of new reforms and supporting programs that work.
President Clinton continues to maintain our commitment to our children and our nation’s future
by protecting our investment in education. President Clinton.is working to provide people with
the opportunities to make the most of their abilities by:

° Creating AmeriCorps, the national service initiative that gives young people the
opportunity to earn money for college by serving their communities and their country. In
the past two years, 45,000 volunteers have worked in schools, hospitals, neighborhoods,
and parks while earning money for college;

° Increasing Head Start funding to provide early education to tens of thousands of
additional children;

e Reforming the student loan program, making college more affordable for millions of
students by providing them with access to flexible repayment options, including pay-as-
you-earn plans. More than 1,750 schools, representing 50 percent of the total amount of
loans, are expected to participate in the Direct Lending program this year,

e Increasing the minimum Pell Grant scholarship from $2,300 to $2,470. The President also
proposes another increase in the Pell Grant to $2,700 for 1997, during which the program
will provide grants to 3.8 million students;

P.O. Box 19100 ¢ WASHINGTON, D.C. 20036-9100 * voice: 202-331-1996 « Try: 202-530-2170 ¢ FAx: 202-496-4849
PAID FOR BY THE CLINTON/GoRE '96 GENERAL COMMITTEE, INC.

@-2a-
