The Honorable Tom Hayden
April 5, 1995

Page 6

Department allowed to pursue under Proposition 117 and the Fish and Game
Code, and what management strategies are you prevented from pursuing?

Response: The Department disagrees that the only strategy not available under
existing law is "random killing" of lions by hunters. There are a number of other
options which could be used to manage mountain lions and reduce conflicts which
now exist. They include the following:

a. Allowing the use of foot snares to take mountain lions causing damage to
Property;

b. Eliminating restrictions on depredation permits to allow the taking of an
offending lion beyond a 10-day period after damage has occurred, subject to
extension by the Department where appropriate;

c. Allowing the take of mountain lions in historic problem areas where the
removal of individual lions after threats to public safety and/or property
damage has occurred, when the. take of individual lions has failed to alleviate
the problems; and

d. Allowing the take of mountain lions in areas where excessive predation on other
intensively managed wildlife, such. as’bighorn sheep, is limiting populations.

; Question: Evidence was presented that under current management techniques

121 mountain lions were killed last year, a sharp increase over previous years. Is

it the judgment of the Department that, ‘still more management tools are
necessary? he
Response: Yes, it is the Re ee es that additional management
options are necessary to minimize conflicts associated with mountain lions,
including public safety threats, property damage, and excess predation on other
wildlife. There were 322 confirmed incidents of mountain lion damage to pets
and livestock and 121 mountain lions killed on depredation permits in 1994. This
compares with five to 10 confirmed incidents of omer and one to five lions
killed annually in the early 1970s.

For specific examples of additional management tools which may be effective in
reducing property damage, please refer to the response to question #7.

. Question: Do you believe thinning of the mountain lion population, i.e., ‘killing

an arbitrary number of lions in a particular area, is a management tool that is
