Bob Dole:

No Vision
August 16, 1996

Bob Dole’s acceptance speech last night at the GOP Convention reveals the stark contrast
between him and President Clinton as to where they want to take this country:

Bob Dole -- looks backwards into the past.
President Clinton -- creates greater opportunities for working families.

Bob : Looking Backward
° 1980s-Style Economic Plan: Bob Dole promises huge tax cuts without telling the

American people how they will be paid for. He cannot explain how he will cut $550
billion in taxes without slashing Medicare and Social Security.

° Cold War Mentality: By focusing on the past, Bob Dole made clear that he has no plan
to help our nation meet its challenges in the next century.

. Negative Attacks: With no new ideas of his own, Bob Dole resorted to personal attacks -
on President Clinton and the Administration.

President Clinton: Brighter Future

. Growing Economy: The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) reported yesterday that the
deficit will be down to $116 billion by the end of this year, confirming an earlier report
by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB); this means the President's policies will
have cut the deficit by 60% in four years. America under President Clinton’s leadership
has created 10.2 million new jobs, and we have the lowest combined rate of
unemployment, inflation, and mortgage rates since 1968.

. Stronger Families: President Clinton fought for passage of the Family and Medical
Leave Act, he expanded Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), is protecting Medicare and
Medicaid, will sign an increase in the minimum wage, created AmeriCorps, and signed
the Brady Bil! -- Bob Dole opposed all of these tools for working families.

. Greater Opportunity: The President will continue to help parents provide for their
children, with targeted tax cuts, expanded IRAs, and increased access to college and
training.

P.O. Box 19300 « WASHINGTON, D.C. 20036-9300 » 202-331 °1996 © PAX: 202 - 496 - 4849

PAID FOR BY THE CLINTON/Gore '96 Primary Committee, INC. ¢ CONTRIBUTIONS TO CLINTON/GORE ‘96 ARE NOT TAX-DEDUCTIBLE.

@ -a~-
