HMO Casualty of the Day

September 26, 1996

HMO Denies 9 Year Old Girl's Cancer Treatment,
nores State Fine, Binding Arbitration Limits Patient's Rights

Carley Christie
Woodside, California

‘As Told By Harry Christie, her father)

When, in January 1993, my 9 year old daughter Carley was diagnosed as having a rare and malignant
kidney cancer, Wilms’ tumor, we were running against the clock in dealing with the crisis. The terms of
the HMO we had just recently joined instructed us to use a surgeon within the HMO, but the federal
advisory guidelines on Wilms’ both insisted we use a pediatric specialist. The HMO list contained no
such specialist, nor did it contain a surgeon who had done a single operation on a child with a tumor of

this type.

Within a 12 hour period, my wife and I had to make a decision regarding our daughter's life. Should we
entrust this delicate, life-threatening operation to someone without prior experience in the field. Or,
should we find an expert with a proven track record. We chose the latter course.

Carley's successful surgery, recovery, and subsequent cure have assured us that we made the right
choice. You only get one chance at removing a tumor correctly to insure the highest probability of
survival.

What we discovered about our HMO and our rights in the aftermath of Carley's operation produced an
infuriating and frightening struggle against our HMO. The HMO called us while our daughter was still
in intensive care and informed us that they refused to pay any of the hospital bill. Eleven months
later, while Carley was going through painful chemotherapy treatments, an arbitrator ruled that the
HMO must pay all the hospital and surgeon's bills -- everything except our legal expenses, which by
that time had reached five figures!

We learned that when we signed the HMO application in California, we gave up our Seventh
Amendment Right to trial by jury or any other legal remedies and had agreed to binding arbitration.
Binding arbitration is part of the HMO grievance process in California -- an HMO euphemism for
denying treatment of payment; and, all the while, the HMO decision was medically indefensible. Only
Proposition 216 eliminates binding arbitration as a condition of health coverage and restores the power
of accountability to patients. In addition, Proposition 216 establishes that only a practicing physician
who has examined a patient can deny the patient care.

Our case is the only HMO case in California's history in which a fine has been imposed against an
HMO. Unfortunately the HMO's lawyers have fought the fine in court and it remains unpaid.
Proposition 216 has the teeth of an independent consumer watchdog association to make sure that
laws which are past are enforced.

Every day until the November 5th election, when Californians will vote on the new patient safeguards against managed care abuses
established by Proposition 216, the face and story of another casualty of managed care care-cutting will be faxed to media, opinion
leaders, and to nurse leaders throughout the state who will distribute and post the stories daily in lunch rooms, community
meetings and other public places. ees is ;

For More Information: Chuck Idelson 415-437 -3325 or Jamie Court 310-392-0522
