MYTH #2: Proposition 218 reduces homeowner voting rights for assessments.

TRUTH: Proposition 218 does not reduce homeowner voting rights for assessments
because homeowners currently have no constitutional right to vote on assessments.

The current assessment process is very unfair to all property owners, including homeowners.
Under current law, if a property owner does not file a written protest against an assessment (ie.,
does nothing), it counts as though the owner supports the assessment. This makes it nearly impossible
to block an assessment. Under Proposition 218, the outcome is determined only by those who
actually vote, with a majority of ballots cast being necessary to approve an assessment. This will give
homeowners a reasonable opportunity to block an assessment if they believe an assessment
proposal lacks merit.

MYTH #3: Proposition 218 hurts public safety programs.

TRUTH: Local officials already have a constitutional obligation to give priority to
providing adequate public safety services. Proposition 218 does not alter
this obligation.

Proposition 172, approved by voters in 1993, sets forth the constitutional obligation that local
officials give priority to providing adequate public safety services. Local officials are supposed to
adequately fund public safety programs before they fund other programs. This is common sense,
and any politician that doesn’t do this will not likely remain in office for long. A new law enacted
earlier this year (AB 3229) provides $100 MILLION in additional funding to local governments
for public safety. If local officials want additional revenue from taxpayers, whether for public safety
or any other purpose, they need only convince local-voters that higher taxes are justified.

Proposition 218 does not eliminate funding sources for public safety programs or any other
program. Rather, Proposition 218 focuses on local government revenues imposed without voter
approval, and requires local officials to obtain voter approval if they want to continue imposing
that particular revenue source. For example, “fees” for general governmental services are thinly
disguised taxes that politicians impose without voter approval. Local politicians can call such levies
whatever they want, but Proposition 218 treats these levies as taxes that may be imposed as long as
voter approval is obtained.

Proposition 218 also does not prohibit legitimate assessments for emergency purposes such as a
natural disaster, The time period required to comply with the assessment procedures under

Proposition 218 is about the same as that under current law.
