widely. At UCLA, much of the focus is on hiring women faculty. At California Community
Colleges, the Faculty and Staff Diversity program is funded at $1.8 million.

In 1974, pursuant to California's first official affirmative action plan, all state agencies
and departments were ordered to develop policies to implement affirmative action programs and
provide progress reports to the state Personnel Board. Since then, the state's affirmative action
program has expanded to include every state agency and department. Departments with 50 or more
full-time employees are required to have formal affirmative action programs while departments with
fewer than 50 or more full-time employees are required to have established affirmative action policies.
An affirmative action manual is published by the Personnel Board to assist departments in setting up
programs.

A 1988 California law requires state agencies that award contracts for construction,
services, equipment and supplies to set goals for providing at least 15 percent of the contracts to
minority-owned businesses and at least 5 percent to businesses owned by women.

Through its Office of Compliance Programs (OCP) within the state Department of Fair
Employment and Housing, the state oversees the minority-hiring practices and non-discrimination
programs of some 9,500 employers who contract with the state. As a practical matter, given the
volume of contractors and limits on state resources, the office scrutinizes the employment records of
only a small percentage of contractors. Companies with more than 250 employees and contracts of
more than $1 million are monitored closely, according to the office. Employers whose records are
found wanting, or whose hiring reports fail to jibe with field observations, have been asked to work
toward eliminating hiring barriers.

On a more local basis, Oakland, San Francisco and other cities, and school districts utilize
affirmative action guidelines for ensuring that a certain percentage of contracts are awarded to women
and minority-owned business. Each organization adopts its own goals based on the surrounding
community and federal guidelines.

In sum, the point at which an affirmative action program touches an individual's life will vary
from person to person. What is clear is that various organizations, both private and public, have
Tecognized the fact that the set of doors leading to success are not only closed when a person is entering
the job market for the first time. Instead, the designers of affirmative action programs have recognized
that efforts need to be made to ensure that the doors are open throughout each phase of every person's
life. Opening the doors does not guarantee that one will get through them, but it does attempt to ensure
that the possibility exists — for everyone. When a girl becomes a woman and a boy becomes a man,
the necessity of these programs bears not only upon the future security of the woman and man, but also
upon the future security of their parents and their children. Eliminating affirmative action programs,
such as those described in this section, will not solve any major political, social, or economic problem,
but it will dim the lights on the hopes of the children and grandparents who depend on the success of
affirmative action beneficiaries.

Presented by the
UCLA School of Law Affirmative Action
Outreach, Education & Organizing Project
For More Information, Please E-Mail Us at "Mattson@Law3.Law.UCLA.Edu"
& Visit Our Affirmative Action Homepage at “http://www.law.ucla.edu/Clasa/Archive/CivAA/* 10
