Californians for
Political Reform

926 J Street, Suite 910 %¢ Sacramento, CA 95814

Q: What can volunteers do?
A: Lots!

We need volunteers to work in coordination with the
campaign in the following areas:

1. Fundraising

Every volunteer should be asked to help with fundraising. This is our most critical
assignment. Options: (1) host a house party or co-host one with a friend, (2) have a garage
sale or other grassroots fundraising event, (3) be a speaker at a party or event, (4) be an
area co-ordinator for the house party program [a how-to kit is available for more information
on house parties], (5) join the CPR Finance Committee to help solicit major donations.

2. Direct Voter Contact

Literature distribution through leafleting and tabling will be an important way to reach voters.
We want to take advantage of the many fairs and events this Spring and Summer, and to go
to the locations where we successfully gathered signatures to begin communicating directly
with voters. We need to get the ball rolling now so that by Fall we have hundreds if not
thousands of people participating in this activity.

3. Speakers Bureau

We want to recruit and train volunteers from all of the groups who would be good public
speakers for the campaign. Speakers training will be provided in each part of the State. We
need to have many speakers trained so that we can provide the right kind of speaker for
each event and be able to meet the demand for informational presentations.

4. Endorsements

Volunteers can help the campaign reach out to get important endorsements. Many of our
volunteers are members of other groups and organizations. They should ask these groups
to endorse CPR, arrange a presentation, and pass out endorsement forms or cards at
meetings or events. We particularly want to target groups that (1)are held in high regard by
voters, (2) can provide volunteers, or (3) can make a donation to the CPR campaign.

5. Media

Volunteers are needed to work in a coordinated manner with the campaign to monitor local
media coverage and to write letters to the editor. Each volunteer can monitor a specific
newspaper or radio station. Anytime there is coverage of campaign finance reform or
related issues, the volunteer alerts others to write letters and/or call in. People particularly
articulate and knowledgeable about the issues are also needed as local spokespeople for
the campaign at press conferences, editorial board meetings, and interviews.

6. Area Co-ordinators
The campaign needs area co-ordinators to be local leaders, recruiting and co-ordinating
volunteers for the projects above to keep things working in an organized, efficient manner.

For more information call:
(916)444-0834 vx (310)475-8285 ve (415)648-2686
