proposed by Senate Bill 28 (Statutes of 1995, Chapter 779) is
to the people in accordance with the provisions of Article II, Section 10
nstitution.

roposed law amends and adds sections to the Fish and Game Code, and
ends a section of an initiative; therefore, existing provisions proposed to be
eted are printed in and new provisions proposed to be added are
printed in italic type to indicate that they are new.

POR :
preserve the wildlife and its habitat for the enjoyment of the people.

(b) The wildlife species known as the mountain lion is the only specially
prot mumnmal in the State of California; the mountain lion species is neither
threatened nor ensacyered in the State of California; and the management of
mountain lions by the Department of Fish and Game is prohibited by the passage
of Proposition 117 by the voters in June, 1990.

‘c) The presence of mountain lions pose a threat to Ueguert) ere and livestock,
as evidenced by the dramatic increase in the number of li fe-threatening and
life-taking confrontations between mountain lions and people, including at least
two confirmed deaths from mountain lion attacks in the past 12 months.

(d) The increase in mountain lion sightings and incidents in residential areas
has caused great concern for the safety and well-being of rural and suburban
residents, including small children.

(e) Wildlife authorities have determined that sightings and incidents involving
mountain lions and people will continue to increase.

(f) The escalating loss of life and cost of injury to peopl
caused by mountain lions has result i!
expenditures by public safety agencies.

tarfayer dallas aba rate of arty filion Solacroar year for thirty

le, id livestock.
|, and will continue to Leen increased

irty years, none of

t plans.
ion 786 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to read:
2786. eae as otherwise expressly provided in
(a) of Section 2787, i i

(a) The acquisition of habitat,
protect deer and mountain lions.

(b) The acquisition of habitat to protect rare, endangered, threatened, or fully
protected species.

(c) The acquisition re pb to further seaplane the Habitat Conservation

im pursuant to Article 2 (commencing with Section 2721) excepting Section

2722 and subdivision (a) of Section 2723, and Sections 2724 and 2.

(d) The acquisition, enhancement, or restoration of wetlands,

fe) The acquisi . restoration, or enhancement of aquatic habitat for
spawning and rearing of anadromous salmonids and trout resources,

() The acquisition. restoration, or enhancement of riparian habitat.

(g) The preparation and implementation of a mountain lion management plan
pursuant to Section 4800.

SEC. 3. Section 2787 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to read:

2787. Notwithstanding Section 13340 of the Government Code, the money in
the fund is continuously Gan at) without

(a) To the Department of Parks and Recreation, four
thousand dollars ($4. fol

Peninsula

by the Department of Parks and Recreation and for grants to the
(2) aap

interpretation
park and wildlil

annually.

(c) To the Santa Monica Mountains Coy » five million dollars
ieee matteo

ear. The money si for the purposes specified in Section 2786 for

wildlife habitat. and for related open-s; jie within the Santa Monica
Mountains Zone. the Rim of the Valley idor, and the Santa Clarita
Woodlands. Of the total amount ahora pursuant to this subdivision, not
less than a total of ten million dollars ($10,000,000) shall be spent within the
Santa Susana Mountains and the Simi Hil ind not less than a total of ten
million dollars ($10,000,000) shall be spent within the Santa Clarita Woodlands,
These funds shall be expended in accordance with Division 23 (commencing with
Section 33000) of the Public Resources Code during the operative Period of this
section as specified in subdivision (f) and in Section 2797. The Legislature may,
statute, extend the period for expenditure of the funds provided by this

subdivision .
five hundred thousand dollars

id) To the California Tahoe Conservancy,
($500,000) annually.

‘e) To the department to pay the costs of Preparing and implementing the
mountain lion management plan pursuant to Section 4800, a sum not to exceed
two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) for each of the 1996-97, 1997-98,
and 1998-99 fiscal years. and a sum not to exceed one hundred thousand dollars
‘$100.000) for each fiscal vear thereafter. It ts also the intent of the Le, islature that
an amount not to exceed two hundred fifty thousand dollars 1$250.000) be
appropriated annually from a source or sources other than the fund for public
safety and public information programs related to mountain lions.

‘fi To the board. the balance of the fund.

+f-Fhis-seetion «g/ The amendments to this section. as approved by the voters at
the March 26, 1996. primary election. shall become Operative on duty+-1990-and:

en

1990, primary election, is amended to read:

Sec. 8. Except for amendments of subdivisions (c) and (9 {g) of Section 2787
and subdivision d) of Section 2796 of the Fish and Game Code to extend the
operative effect of those sections and amendments of Section 3950.1 and Chapter
10 (commencing with Section 4800) of Part 3 of Division 4 of the Fish and Game
Code , which may be enacted by statute enacted by the Legislature. this act shall
be amended only by a statute approved by a vote of four-fifths of the members of
both houses of the Legislature. Except is amendments of Section 3950.1 and

years, commencing with the 1990-91

Proposition 197: Text of Proposed Law

PROPOSED LAW

SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares. as follows: :

(a) It is appropriate for the Legislature and the Department of Fish and Game
to act prudently to address the needs of our changing society. California's complex
and ever-changing population requires that the department and the Legislature
respond to emergencies and exigencies to safeguard the health and safety of the
people of the state and to balance the needs of the people with the necessity to

|, 2020, deletes or extends
uly 1, 2028, or

4800. (a) The commission shall regulate the mountain lion (genus Felis) is-=
ursuant to Chapter 2 (commencing with Section
200) of Division 1, and the cearaaa? shall carry out the regulations of the

rare, or threatened species

mmission for epprral and tnplment& meena han averse hea
commission ment @ tl
Promotes health and safety protection and protection for livestock, domestic

animals, other y, and other wildlife species and that implements Section
1801. The peas identify zones based onthe department's estimates of
mountain lion densities devel from the best information available to the

|

domestic animals, other prope ond other willie poder es Palecisted
ic rty, otl ife species not alleviai

threats, In re may consider, based on the
best ii ic ilable to where the mountain lion population
is Te EPONA (De nn may
couse following: extinction of threatened oi
® mountain lion 5 of livestock and domestic animals; or (3) 0 threat ta

public health and safety. The taking of a mountain lion that is attacking an

priority zone, as provided in this section or Section 4801,
unless there is a plan for zone and the department makes a finding that
managing, i? or taking mountain lions is consistent with the plan for that
zone and maintains a viable mountain lion population in that zone.

() It is ae to take, ase }, transport, Sat a
mountain lion or or luct i, except as speci! ly provided in
this chapter or, in Chapter 2 (commencing wih Section 2116 Deen ges
prescribed in regulations

5 eats ag aa cepa aamneaameie
Provisions-of this chapter: .

@l ict beti this ind the Californic red
PO ie hg metry rma ed
Celie Endangered Species Act i

5._ Section 480) elie Bitiead Grins Cola jsjsiende te cont:
any-mountainrtion

nt may remove or take fon , or authorize
a iv y, but not limited to, an a riate tect governmental

‘safety responsibility
governmental with wildlife management responsibi
land, to remove or take, one or more mountain lions that are

agency management responsibility fake,
‘one or more mountain lions that are perceived to be an imminent threat to public
health or safety on

. ? B
SEC. 6. Section 4801.5 is added to the Fish and Game Code, to read:
4801.5. Prior to submittal to, and approval by, the commission of the plan
required pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 4800, the department may remove
or take any mountain lion, or authorize an appropriate local agency with public
ibilit in lion, that is perceived to be an

ety.
od GRAS Cad W deasdad toe
injured, or killed a mountain lion within

803 or 1808

P96

Chapter 10 (commencing with Section 4800) of Part 3 of Division 4 of the Fish and
Game Code, Any any amendment of this act shall be consistent with, and further
the purposes of, this act, except the Legislature shall not reallocate the funds
allocated by Sections 2787 and 2788 of the Fish and Game Code, change the
expenditure requirements of Section 2791 of the Fish and Game Code, or change
the transfers of funds required by Sections 2795 and 2796 of the Fish and Game
Code.

—— en
