INITIATIVE MEASURE TO BE SUBMITTED DIRECTLY TO THE VOTERS

The Attorney General of California has prepared the following title and summary of the chief purpose and points

of the proposed measure:

HEALTH CARE BUSINESSES. REGULATION. CONSUMER PROTECTION. INITIATIVE STATUTE.
Prohibits health care businesses from: discouraging health care professionals from informing patients or
advocating for treatment; offering incentives for witholding care; refusing services recommended by physi-
cian or nurse without examination by business’ own professional. Requires health care businesses to: make
tax returns and other financial information public; disclose certain financial information to consumers includ-
ing administrative costs; establish criteria for authorizing or denying payments; provide for minimum safe and
adequate staffing of health care facilities. Authorizes public and private enforcement actions. Provides
penalties for repeated violations. Defines “health insurer.” Summary of estimate by Legislative Analyst and
Director of Finance of fiscal impact on state and local governments: Unknown direct and indirect costs to
state and local governments of potentially $10 million to several hundreds of millions of dollars.

TO THE HONORABLE SECRETARY OF STATE OF CALIFORNIA:

We, the undersigned, registered, qualified voters of California, residents of the aforementioned County (or City and
County), hereby propose amendments to existing law, and petition the Secretary of State to submit the same to the voters of
California for their adoption or rejection at the next succeeding general election or at any special statewide election held
prior to that general election or otherwise provided by law. The proposed statutory amendment reads as follows:

Conn aaa i (e), any denial and the reasons for it have been communi- (b) Health care consumers shall have standing to intervene in
| po Protection Am af 1996, by that x caarciot ina timely’ manner in wring © catmewsumecnstags son reer nee: Ae te
(2). Tus mange all be known as the Heath Car Pao a Eats QP ettan oP we nan epee gt anf ee LE

oe 7 . care indi vic or in intere
ma peas nln — FMB a fetes a tl the eee ee ae,
r " ian, nurse, oF co iver is an it in vie of this is
{0 Ne health samenance organization (HMO) or other om or comma of 2 beat care, busines, and whois, wn Jand in lation of pubic policy 2 :
should ‘ Prevent . physicians, responsible for establishing procedures assur quality (c) vate health care business found # court” in-etther-«—
turses and other health care givers from informing patients of care or in amy way, determing wast con. will be ded to 1 rae periiaand  paamaeatseoioe ie in a
any information that is relevant to their health cere. patients shall subject to the same standards i pattern and practice of deliberate or willful violation revisions
(2), Doctors, soress ond oft. hee: concefvers. shenid procedures as all other physicians, nurses, or other licensed of this Act ‘shall for a period of five years be prohibited
Blo” aay “elit ewe pees “Sue = gg So gg
0 7 ion scien is in th ext contail in ions 3 ,
(3) Health care businesses should not create conflicts of Facilities = Health and Safety Code S. 1342.6, or Insurance Code S. 10133.6 in

interest that force doctors and other caregivers to choose fa) All health care facilities shall provide minimum safe and civil or criminal action against it for restraint of trade, unfair
between increasing their pay or giving their patients medically sean staffing of physicians, owt re gir say ew Hm ing. acces, unfair el om ‘or other violations of Business
vers.

ate care. ‘ ‘ caregs
(4) Patients should not be denied the medical care their (b)_ The Director of Health Services shall periodically Code, Division 7, Part 2.
dctor 0 just because their HMO or health insurer SER: dudguel” san Suen aD rE (d) | The remedies contained in this Act are in addition and
thinks it, will cost too much. : adequate levels of patient care in facilities licensed by the cumulative to any other remedies provided by statute or
(5) HMOs and other health insurers should establish Department of Health Services. Those standards shall be based © common — law.
| Sai available criteria ie et care | upon ae mae ne ae 14. Severability. a oa
n professionals ) severity ol tient illness; t) Provision, sentence, phrase, word or group wort
(6) No (0. oF other health insurer should be ‘able to deny id) fecuors ‘aflcting’ the period 2ad quality of patent A ig’ Act Eth apa a or circumstance,
treatment a by a petieary physicion _ ualews the recovery; and is held to ‘be invalid, invalidity shall not other
fie ae 6 ee 2 eee (3) any other factor substantially related to the condition and orion. sentences, pzaes, _ puede, groups of words or
professional who | has examined the patient. health care needs patients. ‘applications of this Act. To this end, the provisions,
hg ge me " care professionals who are (c) For those health services which are provided by health care sentences, phrases, words and groups of words in this Act are
aa ee ae een service plans licensed by the Department of Corporations and severable.
plan provides to patients | sh be subject to the same vided in organized medical clinics not licensed by the (b) a provision, sentence, phrase, word or group of
| epg lt EE ee Bopertment of” Heelth Services, the | Commissioner of words is held to be in conflict with federal law, that provision,
ensed health professionals who provide direct care for Corporations shall periodically " update staffing standards sentence, phrase, or group of words shall remain in full
Patients ms designed to assure minimum safe adequate levels of force and. effect to the maximum extent permitted by federal
8) No hospital, nursing home or other health facility ent care. law.
allowed 10 operate unless it maintains minimum id) Licensed health facilities shall make available for public Section 15. ¥
levels of safe staffing doctors, nurses, and inspection reports. of the dal ing patterns utilized by the ® This Act may only be amended by the Legislature in ways
caregivers g : oe facility and a written plan for assuring with at further “its purposes. Any other change in the provisions
9) zm. — ee ee thar 2ffing standards "required law. by vote {nan
wil care becomes a ? ; :
mre ton Ry. ae Section 9. Disclosure of Excessive Overhead of ‘Health a
care tients ‘ : Health ‘Gaaion isclos an health . ;
“(10)” 1t/is not fair t0 consumers when health care executives {8 )sraqKfMlt cae, inners shal diclese 10 all Pe fees and ihe het
are paid millions of dollars in salaries and bonuses while giher Periodic payments received | by, the  insarer,spen i 0) No amendment shall be deemed to further the of
te a es for care _sirvices to is “subscribers or “ewrlioes and the a eee of the specific provision
ns 4 . ‘amount spent on administrative costs. ‘purposes: is
{hay The remums pod fea ies shold be pen this Act, administrative costs are defined to include all of the Section 16. Definitions’
on the health care services to which patients are entitled, not on following: The following definitions shall apply to this A
one * weg tg Wes.-.888 m fb paee aoe rei omnes a ay es eae oe ‘om
: a commissions, or a Ith care
(12) The. people of California should not be forced -to rely (2) Total compensation, including bonuses, incentives, and business, or in which a health care business holds a cial
only wpon politicians "and their political intees to enforce stock options for officers and directors of the interest least 25% either through ownership of shares or
this Act. The people themselves should standing with 3) Dividends, shares of profit, or any other compensation of memberships.
administrative agencies and the courts to make sure that the received . if any, or any other revenue in excess ®, “Available for public inspection” means available at the
visions, purposes and intent of this Act are carried out of expenditures for the’ direct provision of health care; and ility or agency ing regular business hous to any person
(b) This Act contains reforms based upon these findings. It is (4) All other expenses not related to the provision of direct for inspection andlor for copying, with any charges for
te, pase, and tent of ach seston of ths Ast fo Ce om ce tamed to te. veadtio cot of wpnicton end,
Sh = fi ae aa pe nigel i ) Shout e_enorat cf _stniniseaie “cout ceed 10% of, i
tnd patients and By requiring health care businesses to provide by the insurer, the’ insurer shall furtler "disclose to all its
ee Se ee ee ene purchasers of “health insurance the specific amounts on
Section 2. "Full Disclouure of Medical Information to Paticnts, ating, and advertising, | total coment oe alae to
No health care business shall attempt to prevent in any way 8 fhe provision of direct health care i
iysician, nurse, of other licensed or certified caregiver (c) . The disclosures required by this section also shall be filed
ing to a patient any information that the caregiver wil state be made available for
determines to be relevant to the patient’s health care. : iblic inspection.
| opel Physicians Must Be Able to Advocate for Their Section 10" Provection of Patient Privacy.
‘atients . i a The confidentiality of patients’ medical records shall be
(a) No health care business shall discharge, demote, '\terminate protected as" provided by love Nor sealca ot thls Ait shal BS
@ contract with, deny privileges to, or otherwise sanction @ ‘ as changing such protections except as _ follows:
ician, murse, or other licensed or certified caregiver for No ‘health care business shall sell a patient's medical records to
ating ia. private or fa pablo _on_-bekalt patients or for any third party without the express written authorization of the
Re “Bsc ture, or "ober loened or ceria Earegiver Seat Pedal
l d, have 9 contract a fa) The appropriate agencies shall collect’ and review such
‘or otherwise Cee just cause. { is to compliance with this Act.
Examples of just cause include, but are not limited io, proven (b) Each private health care business and its affiliated
malpractice, —_ patient 5 oxi ‘more 100 in the aggregate

. annually with the responsibfe agency:
. (1) data or studies used to determine the ity, scope or
No health care business shall offer or bonuses, incentives or i i i

mks - se, e sifing, of health care services, including ae realy in such

di
sician, nurse or other licensed or certified caregiver for the 2) financial. reports. substantially similar 10. the reports
Sas Rarer 3 eee See ee ten shall not eauired ‘a aeeproGt | beat cae, ise ance ‘existing law;
mbit” a heath care “bsnes from wing cated rates ke ee eRe

S$. Writen, Criteria for the Denial of Care. (G) &. description of the subject and outcome of all
Health insurers shall establish criteria for authorizing or complaints, lawsuits, arbitrations or other legal proceedings tests. or procedures, " medical treatments, nursing care, mental
ny for care and for assuring quality of care. The brought against the business or any affiliated ise, unless health, and other health care services as defined in S. 1345 (b)
criteria : é such disclosure is prohibited by court order or applicable law. of the Health and Safety Code. ps ;

a) ee = re nurses or other ©) ‘Any information collected or filed in order to comply with (ap, Health, facility” means any licensed facility of any kind at
appropri: licensed health — professionals, acting, iS section shall be available for public inspection. ich health services are provided, including but not limited to those
by = oe scope of practice and actively providing Section 12. _ Interpretation. ‘ * ag facilities defined in § l2s I, 1200, 1200.1, and 1204, and home -

ents ‘a) This law is written in plain language so that people health agencies, as defined in regardless ‘of business form

(b) Use sound clinical Law eal ran iO gg Hla tl y= it. Whe question and whether or not organized and operating as a profit or non-profit,

(c) Be updated at least annually, and of i arises it is the intent of the people that this Act tax-exempt or enterprise, and including facilities owned,

__ (d) et | available. . 4 3 shall be interpreted in a manner that is consistent its ‘or controlled by governmental entities, hospital districts, or
Section 6, Patients. Must Be Examined Before Care is Denied findings, purpose and intent and, to the greatest extent pablic entities.
In arranging for medical care and in providing direct care to rane and — safe; the Ti ‘of patients, th) “Private health care business” means health care business as

mo health care business shall refuse to ze enhances the quality of health care services to which consumers ined herein except governmental entities, including hospital districts
th ‘care services 10 which @ patient is entitled and which ‘so cated, co factors the application “of the. reform and other public entities. “Private health’ care business” shall include

tity Sp yin or cle coonsined in is Act eae any joint veture, parmership, or any other arrangement x

, licensed acting . ision is Act conflicts other enterprise involving a private entity or person in combination or
existing scope of practice the following conditions ee Coutnts mame ce inal pete? cc Aa seal Glace wih 2 police ‘silly i
years AP or contractor who authorizes the denial on GEX3 1, tmplementation and Enforcement. er ipeeigt ke plan asked alee 13ST

y 4 k tion 13. care service as in
Lol th care business has physically examined the (a) __]m,_ provisions of this Act shall be administered | and of the Health and Safety Code:
manner, . : enforce: appropriate state agencies, which issue non-profit hospital’ service govemed by chapter
rea oy Mga ey ction, “ane and eet egulition, hold hearfes, and take any’ other | sdaiisratve iG araeeee de emeeeieg aaescitered
a 4 ; - $ actions are necessary to carry out Purposes enforce sity. i i i

relevant expertise that is jate for evaluating the fic fai . (3) any disability insurer providing hospital, medical or surgical
Clinical issues involved in the dow: sad ES the provisions of this Act commas pftamal Tor tan” eerie’ Coder” Gataticing. aa
