Income Tax - J am an expert in income tax planning, and it is a substantial part of my practice. I
promise to be highly involved in tax simplification. I am not in favor of a massive tax cut for the
1% or 2% of the wealthier tax payers like the flat tax. A FICA rate reduction with an increase in

the cap will help all employees and the self- employed.

Pro-Business - My economic vision will create massive availability of capital for business.
Being the only major candidate with business degrees and substantial business experience, I am
always interested in streamlining regulations.

i - [have helped many of my clients effectively use the social security system.
The affordability solution to future benefits for baby-boomers is means testing, increasing the
age of retirement and returning the income taxation of social security back to the trust fund.
Education - My vision brings new capital to support education. I favor public-funded pre-
kindergarten (daycare) for low income neighborhoods.

Medical - I have been licensed in medical insurance for over 25 years. I have helped many
clients protect themselves from catastrophic medical and nursing home expenses. I favor
portability and universal coverage funded throngh employer tax credits, but not operated through
giant government bureaucracies.

Pro-Choice - Totally pro-choice.

Immigration - The current border restrictions are only short term solutions. Determined people
like our ancestors will always be able to get in. We need a long term solution especially in
Mexico. They need the following: (1) a complete overhaul of their central banking systems, (2)
continual elimination of restrictions to foreign investment, (3) political and labor law reform.
Environment - My new economic vision can provide substantial funding for new parks, reserves
and recreational lands. I support the current environmental legislation.

Crime - My new economic vision will provide increased funding to fight crime.

Urban Decay - My reform provides the capital necessary to rebuild our inner cities and expand
commerce around the nation - in fact around the world!

Private Charities - | have had a subspecialty in my practice in effective charitable giving. I
have raised substantial funds for the Heart Association, Easter Seals, March of Dimes, Red
Cross, United Cerebral Palsy, United Jewish Welfare Fund, and others. I favor renewing the
charitable tax credit for taxpayers who do not itemize.

Military - I am the only major Democratic candidate that has had significant military experience,
therefore I have some frame of reference for effective decision making in this arena.

Foreign Policy - My wife and I have traveled and have had business affairs around the world.
We have had extensive exposure to international cultures.

In my campaign, it does take volunteers and money to get elected and get the
message out. If you would like to contribute time and money to my campaign, or
discuss any issues, please contact my office below.

Sincerely, PASH FOR CONGRESS
5435 Balboa Blvd., #106
We 4 Yl Encino, CA 91316
i (818) 990-9777
Mark S. Pash, CFP FAX (818) 990-6129

Paid for by PASH For CONGRESS Committee #C00313122
