EXPOSITION

(©) nothing in this section shall be This section has been the focus of much controversy which is outlined

interpreted as prohibiting bona fide | below. Please note that this is not an attempt to resolve the controversy

qualifications based on sex which are | but rather to explain both sides of the argument.

reasonably necessary to the normal . . » BONA FIDE QUALIFICATIONS BASED ON SEX WHICH ARE

operation of public employment, REASONABLY NECESSARY . . . Some legal scholars are

public education, or public suggesting that this section would make it easier to discriminate

contracting. against women. Of course, other legal scholars are arguing
that the CCRI does not allow for greater discrimination against
women.

While it is not important to understand the formal
legal arguments, the possibility of greater discrimination does
exist. Ultimately, it will be up to the courts to decide what the
effect this section will have on women and discriminatory
practices against them. Note, however, that six of the nine
justices currently serving on the California Supreme Court
were appointed by Republican Governors Wilson and
Deukmejian.

|| @ Nothing in this section shall be Some basics first: A consent decree is when the parties in a lawsuit
interpreted as invalidating any court reach an agreement and settle before the jury comes to a verdict.
order or consent decree which is in However, if a jury comes to a decision, that decision is enforced by way
force as of the effective date of this of a court order. In either case it is a COURT that is enforcing the result,
| section. either the agreement of the parties or the decision of the jury.
This section is intended to prevent conflicts between some
consent decrees or court orders that are already in place and the CCRI.
If the court orders have a requirement that an affirmative action program
be put in place, the CCRI does not eliminate these court ordered
affirmative action programs.

(©) Nothing in this sections shall be Some federal programs require that, in order to be eligible for federal
| interpreted as prohibiting action funds, the state agency must maintain an affirmative action program. In
which must be taken to establish or the event that the state agency would lose money if they do not have an
} maintain eligibility for any federal affirmative action program, then the state agency can maintain the
| program, where ineligibility would affirmative action program to the maximum extent that federal law and
result in a loss of federal funds to the | the United States Constitution permit.

Presented by the
UCLA School of Law Affirmative Action
Outreach, Education & Organizing Project
For More Information, Please E-Mail Us at "Mattson@Law3.Law.UCLA.Edu"
& Visit Our Affirmative Action Homepage at "bttp://www.law.ucla.edu/Class/Archive/CivAA/"
