Right to Vote on Taxes Act
Page 3

[Annotation: Similar to provision in Proposition 62 with one clarification -- the ballot
language could incorporate future increases and if the ballot measure is approved,
then the government would not have to go back to the voters for those increases.
As long than the government wants to levy now but could raise to the voter approved
level at some later time. Also, elections are consolidated with elections at which
members of governing body are elected, except in cases of emergency. Note that a
unanimous vote is needed to declare an emergency but this has always been
interpreted as a unanimous vote of those present. The concern is that the nature of
the emergency might keep some members from attending a meeting.]

(c) Any general tax imposed, extended or increased, without voter approval,
by any local government on or after January 1, 1995, and prior to the
effective date of this Article, shall continue to be imposed only if
approved by a majority vote of the voters voting in an election on the
issue of the imposition, which election shall be held within two years of
the effective date of this Article and in compliance with subdivision (b)
of this section.

[Annotation: Effective date of January 1, 1995 was necessary to prevent a ‘rush” of
new taxes to meet what would otherwise be an effective date of November, 1996.
In any event, this provision is not draconian for local governments which have been
complying with the requirements of Proposition 62.]

(d) No local government may impose, extend or increase any special tax
unless and until such tax is submitted to the electorate and approved by
a two-thirds vote. A special tax shall not be deemed to have been
increased if it is imposed at a rate not higher than the maximum rate so
approved.

SEC. 3. Initiative Power For Local Taxes, Assessments, Fees and Charges.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Constitution, including, but not limited to,
Article Il, Sections 8 and 9, the initiative power shall not be prohibited or otherwise
limited in matters of reducing or repealing any local tax, assessment, fee or charge.
The power of initiative to affect local taxes, assessments, fees and charges shall be
applicable to all local governments and neither the legislature nor any local
government charter shall impose a signature requirement higher than that applicable
to statewide statutory initiatives.

[Annotation: This section merely ‘constitutionalizes” Rossi v. Brown, a recent decision
of the California Supreme Court upholding the right of the electorate to use the local
