“Southern California needs Proposition 204. As our communities grow, we need a more reliable supply
of clean water. This measure will protect and replenish our groundwater basins and it will enhance the
quality of our drinking water."

John Wodraska
General Manager, Metropolitan Water District

“Proposition 204 is a vital step which will provide more safe, clean water for communities all over
California. And it will help industries and cities reduce the amount of pollution discharged into the San
Francisco Bay. It is good for both the economy and ecology of the Bay Area."

Sunne Wright McPeak
President and CEO, Bay Area Economic Forum

“Prop. 204 will help resolve many of the major water battles in our state. Farmers, ranchers, business
owners and residents from all over the state will see much-needed funding for improvements to our
water delivery and water storage systems."

Bob L. Vice
President, California Farm Bureau Federation

“For those who care abouf protecting the Bay-Delta ecosystem and ensuring we have an adequate
water supply for our state's growing population, Prop. 204 is the answer. This measure is what we need
for the environment and the economy.”

Bill Lockyer
President pro Tem of the Senate

“We need Proposition 204 to help the California economy. This measure will create good jobs for
working families. It will also ensure clean, safe drinking water for us, our children and our
grandchildren."

Robert L. Balgenorth
President, State Building and Construction Trades Council of California, AFL-CIO

“A safe, clean water supply is critical to all offs, Prop. 204 will help improve the quality of our drinking
water for optimum health and make sure there is an adequate supply to meet our needs. This measure
is vital for the benefit of our families, our communities and our livelihoods.”

Senator Diane Watson
Chair, Senate Health and Human Services Committee

“Proposition 204 will benefit all Californians. It will help the economy in urban and rural areas alike by
providing a safe, reliable and affordable water supply for businesses, farms and homes. And it will
improve the quality of our drinking water.”

Senator Richard Polanco oi
Chair, Senate Democratic Caucus

“The existing water supply system is not keeping pace with California's growing population. We must
act now fo avoid a serious shortage and a potentially unsafe water supply. Prop. 204 will help us begin
to meet these needs."

Stephen Hall
Executive Director, Association of California Water Agencies .

08/28/96 11:11 AM cd1/quotes.doc
