“Long Abraham a Little Lonper™
1s the utle of tus caneen which
appeared in “Harper's” musi ater
Lincoin's re-eiecuon. During the
camparen Lincoin said: “Suppert-
ing General McClellan. . . 1s ne
violation of army regulations, and
@5 a quesiion o| \asie of choosing
beiween nm and me. weil. I'm the
longexi. bui he's bener leokane.~
Solders chene Linceim, \hres te one.

Origin of
"Republican"

The designation of Republican to one of the two modern
American political parties came into modern usage in 1854.
But its origin goes back to the time of Jefferson and was tied
in with the use of the term Democrat.

Originally, republican was a vague, neutral term,
because the Constitution had guaranteed to every state “a
republican: form of government.” Jefferson in his first
inaugural address in 1801 said, “We are all Federalists; we
are all Republicans.” On the other hand, since the Feder-
alists - the party of the second president, John Adams -
were accused of being aristrocrats, democrat offered itselt
as the natural counterpart of this term.

But many objected to being called “democrats,” because
the word brought up visions of mob rule in revolutionary
France. Consequently, the Federalists used “democrat” in
a derisive, negative sense to throw at their “republican”
rivals. Jefferson's followers thus preferred to be called “Re-
publicans,” although the official name of his party was
Democrat-Republican.

With the decline of the Federalists, political affiliations be-
came a matter of personalities rather than parties. It must
have been especially contusing to voters in 1824, when the
four candidates for president were all members of the Fe-
publican party. When Andrew Jackson won election four
years later, his wing of the party decided to end all confu-
sion and reintroduce “democrat” as a partisan label; immi-

grants also were drawn to this party in the decades ahead,

because of their advocacy of “democracy” - a semantic

coincidence that Democrats did not mind trumpeting at

election time.
