OF SUNSET PARK

A California nonprofit corporation of Sunset Park residents * 1122 Oak Street, Santa Monica, California 90405

OcTOBER 96 NEWSLETTER

Layout by Bill Josephs

The 1996 “Honorary Friend of Sunset Park,” Felipe Lopez (center), his
family and Richard Bloom (right) President of Friends of Sunset Park.

1996 Election - A Message
from the Board

Friends of Sunset Park was formed by a nucleus of neigh-
bors who felt that there was a compelling need for a proactive
neighborhood organization that could serve two key roles: 1)
to provide information and services to its membership; and
2) to represent the concerns of our membership in the arenas
where decisions affect our neighborhood.

Some of the issues affecting the quality of life in our
neighborhood are inescapably political in nature. Resolution
of neighborhood issues depends not only on facts and the de-
sires of the neighbors, but also on the makeup of our City
Council.

Our founding Directors structured our Articles of Incorpo-
ration so that Friends may participate in political issues or
processes. Our Directors have been very active in the com-
munity and have developed considerable insight and a useful
perspective on the City Council candidates. Based on that in-
sight and perspective, the Friends of Sunset Park Board of Di-
rectors recommends the following candidates who we feel
will strongly support a pro-neighborhood agenda.

We urge you to enlighten yourselves about all candidates
and measures, look carefully at the sources of your information.
Most ImporTaNTLy, VOTE!!!

“Celebrate Sunset Park’’
Annual Meeting

Friends of Sunset Park held their seventh annual “Celebrate
Sunset Park Festival” on the lawn at John Adams Middle
School on Saturday, June 22nd. Neighbors gathered for a lively
afternoon of crafts, music, fun, and food. Santa Monica Air-
port, the Police Department and many local organizations were
represented at tables. The fire truck was a big hit with the chil-
dren. Many thanks.to Loew’s Santa Monica Beach Hotel for
their great raffle prize.

A highlight of the day was the “Honorary Friend of Sunset
Park” award which was presented to Felipe Lopez. Felipe is a
graduate student at UCLA who despite his busy schedule still
manages to volunteer two hours a week to head the After
School Tutorial Program at Fairview Library. “A lot of kids
don’t know how to do their homework,” Lopez said. “By help-
ing them, it will help society at large. It’s important to help the
community.”

____ Traffic Management to_
Begin

Neighborhood response has been very positive to the test
“curb extensions” installed on 11" Street at Ocean Park and
Marine last moth. These devices are designed to slow
traffic down and make pedestrian crossing safer.

The city plans to install additional curb extensions
to be completed by Fall, 1997, pursuant to the
plan approved by the City Council.

City officials tell us that by the end of this month, work will
commence on installation of phase one of the speed hump pro-
gram. Installation will proceed at the rate of approximately one
street per week. The humps are scheduled to be installed in the
following order:

21° Street (Pico To OceAN Park Bw.)

22" Street (Pico To OCEAN Park Buvp.)

25” Street (Pico To OceAN Park Bio.)

20” Street (Pico To OcEAN Park Bu.)

23° Street (Pico To OCEAN Park Bivp.)
CuoverrieLD Buvo. (Pico To Ocean Park Bwo.)
PEARL STREET (BETWEEN 30” AND 33 STREETS)

33° Street (Pico To PEARL STREET)
29” Street (Pico To OCEAN Park Biv.)
AND
16” Street (Pico To OceAN Park Bw.)
(TIMED TO COORDINATE WITH PUBLIC SCHOOL BREAKS).

Any questions can be directed to Ron Fuchiwaki at the city
traffic department at 458-8291.

City Counc Erection Recommenpations

Richard Bloom

Kelly Olsen

Ken Genser

