THE LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTERS OF CALIFORNIA

926 J Street, Suite 1000, Sacramento, CA 95814 (916) 442-7215 / Fax (916) 442-7362
CALPIRG's So-Called "Tough" Anti-Corruption Campaign Initiative:
Consumer Fraud?
by
Fran Packard

President
League of Women Voters of California

CALPIRG's campaign reform initiative on the November ballot may look like reform. It may
sound like reform. It reads as if it were lifted straight out of the results of a public opinion poll or
focus group analysis on the need for reform. In short, it pushes every voter hot button, but it
raises serious questions:

1. If this so-called Anti-Corruption Act is really intended to break the special interests’ grip on our
political system, why does it repeal key provisions of the 1990 voter-approved Ethics in
Government Act which flatly bans honoraria payments to local government officials, members of
boards and commissions, candidates, and other key state officials? Further, the CALPIRG
measure repeals limits on gifts and travel involving legislators, candidates, and other public
officials. Why would someone who wants to clean-up government would repeal one of the
comerstones of current reform law? CALPIRG claims it wasn't a drafting error. With a perfectly
straight face, CALPIRG claims it was part of a strategy to replace the current flat ban on
honoraria with an even "tougher" ban on honoraria two years from now in 1998. But what could
be "tougher" than the flat no honoraria ban that would be repealed by the CALPIRG initiative?

Answer: Either CALPIRG committed the biggest initiative drafting error in the history of
initiatives or they planned to fool voters into repealing some of the state's most important political
reform laws as part of a plan to persuade the public to support another CALPIRG initiative in
1998.

2. Why is California's largest special interest campaign contributor, the California Teachers
Association, supporting CALPIRG's so-called "tough" reforms?

Answer: The CALPIRG initiative is loaded with illegal provisions that even its sponsors admit
won't stand up in court. But in the unlikely event that parts of the measure do withstand judicial
scrutiny, it's compromised by a gaping special interest loophole which benefits some of
CALPIRG's most important special interest backers.

In a nutshell, here's the story: The CALPIRG initiative allows some very special, special interests
to give politicians more in campaign contributions, unlimited honoraria, gifts, and trips than the
League of Women Voters/Common Cause/AARP/UWSA-sponsored California Political Reform
(CPR) Initiative. Let's compare rhetoric to reality:

1
