/

f
Black women earn 64¢, Latinas earn 55¢.! These gaps in wages cannot be wholly explained by the
differences in education between White men and other people. For example, Latinas with college
degrees earn less than white men with only high school diplomas.” Affirmative action programs
address current discrimination by creating more, and better, opportunities for qualified people of color
and White women in education, in employment and in public contracting. By implementing affirmative
action, we are opening up formerly obstructed avenues of opportunity and allowing millions of people
to become increasingly self-reliant.

i ivi Understanding compensatory justice requires
understanding that affirmative action can benefit both specific individuals and entire groups. Some
programs only benefit identified individuals who have suffered a specific harm. For example, a court
order may require a company to institute an affirmative action policy in its system of promoting
employees because a jury has determined that the company discriminates against its employees on the
basis of race or gender. Some affirmative action programs benefit entire groups who have suffered
discrimination. There are at least three reasons for compensating an entire group as opposed to only
identifiable individuals.

First, some types of discrimination are suffered by a very large percentage of the individuals
within a particular group, so it is administratively efficient to compensate the group as a whole. In
fact, insisting upon identification of specific individuals may frustrate the effectiveness of the entire
program. For example, because of wide spread economic disadvantages, the American Indian infant
mortality rate is distressingly high and pervasive. It is simply more efficient to create health and
education affirmative action programs for all American Indians rather than trying to guess which
individuals may be most at risk. By waiting until specific individuals can be identified, many
opportunities to prevent infant mortality would be sacrificed (e.g., educational affirmative action
programs aimed at lowering teenage pregnancies should be directed at all teenagers, not just pregnant
girls). Also, by allowing all American Indians to participate in such affirmative action programs, we
communicate that infant mortality is a problem that concerns entire communities and not just pregnant
girls and women.

Secondly, discrimination is often directed at individuals simply on the basis of their membership
within a group. At one level, racism and sexism mean prejudging individuals based solely on their race
or gender. The specific individual suffers a direct harm, but the group as a whole is also harmed by
the perpetuation of stereotypes and the diminishment of opportunities. Part of what makes racism and
sexism such stubborn problems is that a single discriminatory action has a ripple effect that harms
people beyond those immediately involved. For example, suppose a fully qualified Vietnamese-
American is denied a promotion into a senior management position because the CEO believes Asian
Americans are better suited to technical and scientific jobs rather than leadership and human resource
management positions. The specific individual clearly deserves compensation, but denying this
individual a promotion also harms Asian Americans as a group. Since the CEO has generalized about
Asian Americans as a whole, her discriminatory action perpetuates a stereotype that harms al/ Asian
Americans, not just those from Viet Nam. By discriminating against a qualified Vietnamese-American,
the CEO diminishes opportunities for other Asian Americans by denying younger Asian Americans a
tole model and potential mentor. An affirmative action program directed at all Asian Americans more

U.S. Bureau of the Census,Curreat Population Reports Series P60-184, Moacy Income of Households, Families and Persons in the United States:
1992. U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 1993.

e Id.

Presented by the
UCLA School of Law Affirmative Action
Outreach, Education & Organizing Project
For More Information, Please E-Mail Us at "Mattson@Law3.Law.UCLA.Edu"
& Visit Our Affirmative Action Homepage at "bttp://wew.law.ucla.edu/Class/Archive/CivAA/* 3
