lassroom teachers than boys.°

Outreach programs for junior high and high school students attempt to further students'
commitment to their academic careers at this critical stage. In Los Angeles, young women are
provided with educational resources and mentors who encourage them to achieve their highest
potential. In addition, some California school districts have implemented Girl's Math programs in
which girls study math in a ‘girls only' setting. Programs also exist to interest students of color in
fields where they have previously been underrepresented. For example, college student volunteers
sponsor activities in engineering and science for Latino youth. Volunteers also assist inner-city youth
in predominantly Black neighborhoods with Math, English, and Science by visiting schools and
conducting educational field trips. One of the newest outreach programs is a partnership arrangement
between the Southern California Indian Youth Center and American Indians attending a Los Angeles
high school.

YOUTH PREGNANCY

No matter what a young woman's plans might have been academically, a pregnancy can derail
her from that plan either permanently or temporarily. The United States has the highest rate of teen
pregnancy and births in the developed world. Every 67 seconds, a teenager has a baby in the U.S.
California is ranked 40th among the states for teen births — only 10 states have higher teen birth rates.°

Pregnancy and parenting is the most common reason given by girls for dropping out of high
school. In California, 8 out of 10 girls who become mothers before age 18 do not finish high school, 4
out of 10 who give birth by the age of 15 do not complete the 8th grade, and 60% of teen mothers have
a second child within 2 years.”

Cal-Learn was created by the California State Legislature in 1993 and implemented in 1994.
The CAL-Learn program is designed to decrease future welfare dependency by providing support
services and incentives for pregnant and parenting girls to graduate from high school.

Localized programs exist to support pregnant young women academically as well. The LA
Unified School District Pregnant Minor Program operates separate classes for pregnant students who
are having difficulty in the regular classroom setting. The young women receive a strong curriculum,
as well as individual counseling, assistance obtaining financial, medical, and psychological services,
and training in birthing and parenting skills. In the Eden, California area, the School Age Mothers
program enables motivated teen moms to complete high school, secure gainful employment, and
provide a caring and safe environment for their children. The program provides academic support
services which allow the students to complete their high school education.

P. Campbell, "Three Years of Encouraging Young Women in Math, Science, Engineering," Douglass Scicace Institute, Grotong, MA, Campbell-
Kibler Associates 1990.

"The State of America's Childrea,” Children's Defense Fund, Washington, D.C. 1991.

"California's Unfinished Battle: The War on Poverty," CA Department of Economic Opportunity, November 1989.

Presented by the
UCLA School of Law Affirmative Action
Outreach, Education & Organizing Project
For More Information, Please E-Mail Us at “Mattson@Law3.Law.UCLA.Edu"
& Visit Our Affirmative Action Homepage at “hétp://www.law.ucla.edu/Class/Archive/CivAA/" 7
