ed

WIN

% NK

President Clinton and the Democratic Party.....

Working Hard To Balance The Budget
And Protect America’s Values

Democrats are working hard to help pass President Clinton’s balanced budget plan that protects
Medicare, Medicaid, education and the environment. The GOP has countered with tax breaks for
the rich, and deep cuts that will hurt the elderly, the sick, pregnant women and children.

Medicare: The extremist Republican Congress wants to cut Medicare in order to give huge
tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans. Democrats are fighting these unfair, warped priorities.
Medicaid: The GOP wants to eliminate minimum standards for nursing home care; their
block grant proposal could mean $38,000 a year in nursing home costs to a working family.
Environment: The GOP’s radical cuts to the EPA pose a dire threat to clean air and water.
Education: Only the privileged few will receive an education if GOP extremists get their way.
They’ ve proposed an end to direct student loans and even cuts in Head Start.

The Clinton Plan Balances The Budget in Seven Years

President Clinton’s 1993 economic plan — which not a single Republican voted for — has cut the
deficit by more than half. President Clinton’s leadership has created 8.7 million new jobs since
he took office and put our economy back on track. This j ime i

. Working together we can make our economy even

stronger and help hard-working families increase their pay and build security for the future.

The Clinton Plan Protects America’s Values and. Helps Middle Class Families

Last year, the extremist Republicans in Congress shut down the government twice, trying to
force America to accept deep cuts in Medicare and Medicaid, education, and environmental
protection. The President wouldn’t accept them, and he still won’t. The Clinton balanced budget
protects Medicare and Medicaid, makes new investments that will help people build security,
protects health insurance for millions of downsized workers and makes it easier for companies to
offer their employees pensions. All in all, President Clinton’s balanced budget proposal has a
20% increase in education and training programs, along with a 23% increase in funds to enforce
environmental laws, keep our drinking water clean and safe, and get rid of toxic wastes.

The Clinton Plan Cuts Taxes for Middle Class Families

The Republican budget that President Clinton vetoed would have raised taxes for 8 million
working families by reducing the Earned Income Tax Credit by $31 million. That’s just plain
wrong. The Clinton Budget takes a different approach — cut taxes for middle class families to
make it easier to raise children, pay for their education, and save for retirement. The plan includes
a $10,000 a year tax credit to help families pay for college, so that parents can help their children

get ahead in life.

Issue Paper No. 1

June 1996

DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE

430 South Capitol Strcet, S.E. * Washington, D.C. 20003 « 202.863.8000 « http://www.democrats.org
