KELLY OLSEN DROPPED FROM SLATE

Two years ago, Santa Monicans for Renters Rights made history.
“For the first time in its history, the politically powerful Santa
Monicans for Renters Rights voted not to endorse one of its own
incumbent City Council members — Kelly Olsen — for re-election.”

—The Outlook 8/8/94

In 1996 SMRR leaders said NO to Kelly Olsen AGAIN:

“For a variety of reasons we do not believe that Kelly Olsen

should be among those endorsed by SMRR.”

— 8/4/96 letter signed by Ralph Mechur, Denny Zane, Eileen Lipson,
Nancy Cattell, Delores Press, Laurie Newman, Kenneth Breish and Linda Sullivan

The Outlook 8/4/94 . a
ndorse Olsen for council re-election

potential candidates hoping to appear
on the SMRR slate, which most likely
will carry three candidates. They are
Councilman Anthony “Tony" Vazquez
and city Planning Commissioner Pam

d
Zane wont e

Jorge Casuso
STAFF WRITER Bes

Santa Monica City Councilman ie
Kelly «Olsen's reece popes Fe ul needs more women 5

ved a setback from within his own eine ee ee ice, Or Canoe :
pay this wa former Mayor VO™ Zane seid: puss and she Party insiders consider Vazquez,
ee cs rse hi she’s rooted in the community, and s hose political career Zane has spon-
Dennis Zane declinted to endorse him brings a cultural 9 ‘hility that has whose p ea caret Zane Bas 08

‘td a virtual shoo-
for re-election. ; ee ht ie : them
, comes days before the ee ssing

he blow comes days : 4
a erful Santa Monicans her husband) Ju

cally power Sa Ug daakee to

righteous c a self-
“Olsen’s given all he has to give at

der who hol
grudges, pi : olds
already. I think we need a new his $50-a Pays politics and lets
direction.”

head.” "month position go to his

women candidates ‘being pushed by
SMRR’s Women’s Caucus, formed last
fall to elect more women to city gov-

“Critics Paint Olsen as

— Lisa Monk Borrino
Santa Monica Rent Control Board

The Outlook, 8/17/94
The Outlook, 7/14/94

In 1996, isn't it time we all
said NO to an Olsen rerun?

Think hefore you vote.
We Deserve Better In 1996.

Paid for by Robert Bisno, 2204 Colorado Ave., Santa Monica, CA 90404 o<
