MAKING A DIFF

Senator Tom Hayden’s Record Speaks fo

Tom's fight for school reform includes more
charter schools and smaller districts. His 1996
legislation (SB 1883) will create 12 new public
charter schools in Los Angeles, like Fenton
Elementary and the Palisades Complex.

Tom’s long-standing battle to stop
skyrocketing fee increases at state
colleges and universities culminated
in 1995 when fees were frozen for
the first time in five years.

In the wake of the 0.J. Simpson trial, Tom
authored SB 169 to close an outrageous legal
loophole that allowed violent offenders to avoid
responsibility for a first-time assault. The new

» \ law makes domestic violence a crime the first
\\ ime it happens.

Tom co-chaired the historic Prop 99
campaign to tax tobacco and educate the
public against tobacco hazards. In 1994 his
SB 1927 became the nation’s toughest law
against peddling tobacco to our kids.

%,

Thanks to Tom, victims of violent crime now must

be notified by the district attorney before a plea
bargain is reached in their case. Before Tom's SB
221 was signed into law last year, prosecutors
were cutting deals with defendants without
consulting victims.

.

lis year Tom stopped the L.A. Airport
Commission frombuilding runways into Santa

Monica Bay through the sand dune habitat of
endangered blue butterflies. As chairman of
the Senate's environmental committee, Tom
has blocked yearly attempts to weaken the
oe Endangered Species Act.

More than any other electe {Official in Los Angeles,
~~ Tom has fought to prot h ‘Constituents and the
~~ environment from subway construction damage while

and uncovering fraud and fiscal
ent at this scandal-plagued agency.

Under Tom’s legislation signed into law this
year, the “date rape” drug Rohypnol, is illegal

to possess or sell. Rohypnol has become a
Tom chaired a nationally-watched investiga- popular weapon for tapists because it can
3 tion of the gross misuse of embryos without knock out a victim for up to eight hours,
i family consent at UC Irvine. His SB 1555 leaving them with little or no memory of ever
makes it a felony to take human eggs and being assaulted.

embryos without patient consent.

Voter Alert:

Don’t let the MTA and the Sacramento

Republicans fool you into supporting a
fictitious candidate. They want to get rid
of Senator Hayden because he’s the
public Watchdog exposing their waste
and corruption.

A well heeled player supportin: Ss opponent is Marty Rubin, the chief
corporate contractor to the scandal-ridden MTA subway. He wants to silence
Tom's dogged opposition to the corruption, mismanagement and waste at the
MTA. So much so, he hosted a $250-per-head reception for Tom's opponent.
Also, Republican Senate Leader Rob Hurtt has given millions of dollars to elect
a Republican majority. The Hurtt-dominated Republican agenda is to make
homosexuality a crime, reverse abortion rights guaranteed by Roe v. Wade,
undo California's environmental laws and preach “absolute values in the Bible
that should be the foundation of our society.” (L.A.Times, 11-24-95) Hurtt
demands allegiance to Republican Caucus from those he elects.

RE-ELECT SENATOR TOM HAYDEN
