Comparison of Key Provisions of The Patient Protection Act- Prop. 216
and SEIU Initiative - Prop. 214

The Patient Protection Act is sponsored by consumer advocates and the California Nurses
Association, a professional association of registered nurses. It has inspired a copy-cat measure,
sponsored by the Service Employees International Union. The SEIU measure is superficially similar to
the Patient Protection Act; but it omits protections essential to proper implementation of any
initiative. Moreover, its fine print includes several subtle but important changes. Several of the
differences between the measures are described below.

What happens if both pass: If both initiatives are approved by the voters, the California Constitution
states that where specific provisions conflict, the provision of the initiative that has received the most
votes will prevail; provisions of the initiative approved by fewer votes that do not conflict will take
effect. However, in a case in which the California Supreme Court viewed two competing initiatives as
containing entirely different comprehensive schemes, the court refused to merge provisions and in
effect nullified the measure which received a smaller majority.

Patient Protection Act : SEIU Initiative
Proposition 216 Proposition 214

L Date initial version filed with December 5, 1995 January 5, 1996
Secretary of State. -

Prohibits financial incentives to limit
care. F

Similar to PPA, except that consumers

Use of financial incentives such as
can be forced to waive enforcement

bonuses to doctors, nurses, to deny or
limit care.

Before an HMO or insurer can deny the
care or payment for the care prescribed
by a patient's physician or nurse, the
HMO must conduct a physical
examination by an equally qualified
caregiver. All written criteria for denial
of care in HMOs must be based on
standard guidelines and made public.

Similar to PPA, except that consumers
can be forced to waive enforcement
power (see #9)..

Denial of medical treatment and
pases of claims by employees of
Os, insurance companies who
often have inadequate qualifications to
make medical decisions.

Gag orders prohibited. Doctors, nurses
and other licensed caregivers (LVNs,
hysical therapists) cannot be punished
‘or advocating patient's interests in
private or discussing issues of medical
policy in public.

Similar to PPA: adds “just cause” labor
provision to make it more difficult to
terminate employees, including
unlicensed/ uncertified workers such as
dietary workers. “Just cause” provision
preempted by federal labor law and
invalid for any health care worker
already covered by a union agreement.

“Gag orders” on doctors, nurses
prevent them from disclosing medical
options not covered by the insurer and
prohibit them from speaking against
policies which are endangering
patients.

The Patient Protection Act requires the
Department of Health Services to issue
sath and adequate epi standards for
licensed and certified health care
workers at health care facilities within
six months by regulation. Failure to
comply with staffing levels is grounds
for loss of license and can be used as
evidence bv iniured patients.

Says that the Director of Health Services
shall “periodically update” existing
staffing standards to assure “minimum
safe and adequate” staffing. “Staff”
includes dietary workers, Janitors and
food service workers. Compliance is not
a condition of licensure and cannot be
used by injured patients.

Hospitals are routinel operating with
unsafe staffing as po downsizing
and replacing registered nurses and
other trained professionals with less
skilled workers

Similar to PPA, except that consumers
can be forced to waive enforcement
power (see #9).

Health insurers sell patients’ medical
records to third parties without the
consent of the patients.

The Patient Protection Act "65 ted the
sale of medical records to third parties
without the patient's consent.

