S855 2 ASW 2S 4.6 25.8 2 OS, S-c. ASS soseeCOR IV SiO 4 2 slot one
"SsSCAlcn 27 parents anc teachers WOO exercises <
UGA ICACOS. Crested spon soileges and smiversices cna: are cre
we word, Jul were arfordaoie :0 a] Amencans. it rested upon working men and women
who eames sew skills and siimced up wie economic ‘adder, for -hemselves and their chuldren.

©
<

envy Se

Today, education has instead become a bloated monument to political influence and the
status quo, All too often, our schools are dangerous and demoralizing places. The price tag of a
college ecucaton as sen astronomically in secent decades, beyond the reach of too many
families. Empioyers are discouraged by the tax system from providing education and job
Tuining assistance to their employees. A maze of federal job training programs, designed with
the best of intentions to give more Americans a first or second chance, does not seach workers
the skills they need for the modern workplace.

Bob Dole will help increase long-term economic growth and opportunity by encouraging
choice, quality, and access to education and training~for grade school and high school kids, for
students in college and other post-secondary institutions, for working Americans, and for those
laid off or unemployed. Bob Dole will:

1. Establish a four-year, $3 billion demonstration program to provide Opportunity
Scholarships of up to $1,000 for elementary school students and $1,500 for high
school students from low- and middle-income families. to amend any accredited
school—puolic, private, or religious~that chooses to participate. The federal funds for
the Opportunity Scholarships will be matched each year dy $3 billion in state funds.
These scholarships will help give millions of low- and middle-income families the
financial ability :o choose the best schools for their children.

2. Allow low- and middle-income parents and students to deduct the interest they pay on
student loans for post-secondary school education.

uw

Allow low. and middle-income parents to establish Education Investment Accounts
for their children up to the age of 18. The $500 per child tax credit or other funds
may be placed into these accounts, up to a limit of $500 per child per year. As with
IRAs, accumulated earnings on these accounts will be tax-free if funds are left in the
account for at least five years. Money may be withdrawn from these accounts to pay
for tuition. fees, books, computers. and other expenses at an accredited college,
university, or other post-secondary institution of higher learning.

4. Allow workers to receive tax-free college. graduate. or post-graduate tuition
assistance trom employers. by permanently reinstating Section 127 of the Laternal
Revenue Code. Employers should be encouraged to provide tax-iree educational
benefits to their employees without the involvement of wasteful government
bureaucracies. These educational benetits will provide more workers with the skills
and learning they need to take full advantage of the many new opportunities of
today’s economy.
