(FNHP letter)

Dear Member,

The health care industry is rapidly changing, and health professionals like us see those changes
up close each and every day. Restructuring, ‘managed care’ and other changes have a tremen-
dous impact on the quality of care, and they are one reason why the election on Tuesday, Novem-
ber 5 is so important. .

We need to support candidates who are ready to support us in addressing these challenges —
the effect that ‘managed care’ has on quality, the needs of Medicare and Medicaid patients,
and the ways in which insurance companies “cherry pick” by attempting to unload the elderly,
the acutely ill and other participants they consider to be high risk. When it comes to these
issues, there is a world of difference between President Clinton and Senator Dole:

@ President Clinton has protected Medicare and Medicaid from severe cuts proposed by House
Speaker Newt Gingrich. Clinton also fought to expand Medicare coverage of preventive services,
for example, by waiving cost-sharing of mammograms. Bob Dole voted for the Gingrich budget
plan that would have cut Medicare by $1,700 per beneficiary within seven years. The plan Dole
supported also would have cut Medicaid reimbursements — forcing up to 700 urban and rural
hospitals to close their doors.

@ President Clinton supports legislation that puts an end to ‘‘drive-through” deliveries by
requiring insurers to pay for a hospital stay of at least 48 hours for both the mother and new-
born. The President helped lead the fight to pass a bill that prevents insurance companies from
using ‘‘pre-existing” conditions to deny coverage. In 1994, Dole voted against an amendment
to require insurance companies to cover preventive service — such as prenatal care — at no
extra cost. Insurance companies are among the largest contributors to Dole’s campaign.

@ With the odds stacked against it, President Clinton led the fight to make basic health care
a right for all Americans, not a luxury for the few. Although his initial plan was defeated, the
President is supporting other ways to lower costs and provide portability of health insurance.
In 1971, Dole publicly referred to ‘‘the present health care crisis in our nation.”” By 1994 —
when health care costs were 11 times higher than in ’71 — Dole had changed his mind. He
questioned whether there was any crisis at all, and Dole told a business group that failing to
pass health care reform ‘‘would not be the end of the world.”

@ Under President Clinton, women’s health concerns have received the attention they deserve.
Over the past three and a half years, the National Institutes for Health (NIH) funding for breast
cancer research has risen 65%. Women’s health issues have been a low priority for Dole.

The Clinton and Dole records provide us with a clear choice on Tuesday, November 5. This
comparison explains why the Federation of Nurses and Health Professionals/AFT has voted to
endorse President Clinton for re-election. | urge you to consider these issues as you cast your
vote. So much is at stake. Thank you.

In solidarity,

[Your name], President
[Name or initials of FNHP Local]
