HEADLINERS

More Assembly Victories

Several significant reform bills were approved by the
Assembly, where they will now face stiff tests in the State
Senate. All four ACTR-sponsored bills introduced in 1996
were passed out of the Assembly. What is most noteworthy
was that all bills passed with varying degrees of nineteen
(and in some cases tripartisan) support.

The Assembly passed A.B. 2129, A.B. 2385, AS B.
2387 and A.B. 3071. A.B. 2129 (Goldsmith), which
passed 41-32, prohibits multiple punitive damage awards
for the same act or course of conduct, raises the burden of
proof for punitive damages, and establishes a pleading
hurdle for punitive damages.

A.B. 2385 (Brulte), which abolishes joint and several
liability against service providers, passed on a 49-21 vote.

A.B 2387 (Brulte), which establishes a finite statute of
limitations in actions against service providers, passed
41-32.

A.B. 3071 (Granlund), which seeks to preserve the
efficacy and cost-effectiveness of binding arbitration in
medical malpractice actions, passed 44-28.

This represents significant progress because these bills
received bipartisan support on highly substantive tort
reforms. You may recall that when S.B. 31 (punitive
damage reform) and S.B. 994 (wrongful termination and
shareholder derivative reforms) passed on the final night of
the 1995 session, they received only GOP support. Those
two bills also marked the first time in 20 years that
substantive tort reform legislation reached the floor of
either house over trial lawyer opposition, The action on
A.B. 3071, 2129, 2385, and 2387 marked the first time in
20 years that substantive legal
reforms garnered bipartisan support
on the floor of either house of the
Legislature.

Anti-Proposition 211
Campaign in Gear

A broad-based campaign has
shifted into high gear to oppose
Proposition 211, the initiative
placed on the November ballot by
plaintiffs’ securities lawyers
scheming to demolish the federal
securities lawsuit abuse reforms
enacted by Congress in December.

The campaign, Taxpayers
Against Frivolous Lawsuits

ALN

blication of the Association for California Tort Reform = dedicated to restoring fairness and balance to the civil justice system

ASSOCIATION

CALIFORNIA
TORT REFORM

http://www.actr.com/actr/

Bo

THIRD QUARTER 1996

(TAFL), is supported by a coalition of investors, senior
citizen groups, high-tech and bio-tech firms, accountants,
financial and securities firms, ‘and a diverse group of
individuals and other companies across the full spectrum of
the business community. Support for defeating Proposition
211 is coming from across the nation.

The campaign is co-chaired by ACTR President John H.
Sullivan, California Chamber of Commerce President Kirk
West, and software inventor Tom Proulx. Campaign
consultant Goddard*Claussen/First Tuesday, with a proven
record of defeating anti-business, anti-consumer ballot
measures, is producing television spots to make sure early
on that voters know the initiative is written and financed by
plaintiffs’ securities lawyers nationally.

Information on the initiative and campaign is available at
http://www.tafl.com.

Securities Expert’s Proposition 211 Warning

A former Securities and Exchange Commission
member and Stanford law professor has warned that
Proposition 211 would make California law dominate
securities litigation nationally and transform the state into
a mecca for lawsuits. Joseph A. Grundfest said in a
speech to securities lawyers in Los Angeles that the
proposition’s passage would render worthless the
legislation enacted by Congress last year to curb frivolous
suits in which there is no real evidence of fraud.

Bad News: Attorneys’ Fee Protection Initiative
ACTR has formed a committee “Coalition Against
Unfair Attorneys Fees” (CAUAF) to defeat Proposition
207, the trial lawyer-sponsored initiative to prohibit the
Legislature from protecting consumers and controlling
abusive legal fees.
Trial lawyers are trying to
disguise their measure as a
restraint on frivolous lawsuits. In
reality, the provisions purporting
to restrain frivolous litigation
generally restate existing laws
and rules, and actually make
them more difficult to be
enforced.
The ballot argument filed
against the measure calls it “a
smoke screen.” Signing the
ballot argument — against
Proposition 207 are Assembly
Judiciary Committee Chairman
Bill Morrow, ACTR President
John Sullivan, and Martyn

FOR

