WIN President Clinton and the Democratic Party....

Working Hard To Help American Families
Plan Their Economic Future

Common sense, dollars and cents — that’s the President’s plan. President Clinton has proposed
legislation — the Retirement Savings and Security Act — that will directly address the fears of millions of
Americans that they won’t have enough money when they retire. The Clinton proposal will make it
easier for America’s working families to plan and save by allowing workers to take their pensions with
them when they switch jobs and by increasing access to pensions for the millions of Americans who
work in small businesses.

Workers In Small Businesses Need Help Saving
As the President said in the Rose Garden of the White House, “Right now, three-quarters of the
workers in large businesses have employer-provided pensions, compared to only one-quarter of workers
in small businesses.” Clinton proposes setting up a “new kind of 401(k) plan for employees of small
businesses. They could expand coverage with this provision alone by up to ten million working
Americans.” Small business is the backbone of our economy. It only makes sense to make it easier for
small businesses and their employees to save for the future.

Pensions Must Be Portable For America’s Working Families
The five million people who change jobs every year will have an easier time saving for retirement when
Congress passes President Clinton’s Retirement Savings and Security Act. Under Clinton’s plan, when
workers change jobs they could keep on saving through their existing 401(k), by taking it with them
from job to job, rather than having to wait to start saving in a new employer pension plan. People
shouldn’t be kept from accepting bigger challenges and better paying jobs for fear of losing money
they’ve already saved, or face an unnecessary interruption in their ability to save.

Clinton Plan Is Concrete Action For W orking Families
When President Clinton took office, the economy was drifting, unemployment was high and the few
new jobs that were being created were in low-wage, no-future industries. Since Clinton was elected,
he’s delivered 8.5 million new jobs. America’s 8.5 million new jobs are more than the other six of the
big seven of the G-7 economies combined. Still, far too many Americans are not sharing in the nation’s
prosperity. The President has offered a common sense plan to give America’s working families a hand:
cut taxes for working families, raise the minimum wage, offer tax deductions for education, allow
workers to keep their health insurance if they change or lose their jobs, and reform pension plans to
make it easier for workers to save for retirement. Clinton’s plan is common sense, dollars and cents,
to America’s working families.

“There are an awful lot of working people out there today who are afraid that if
anything happens to the job they’re in now they’ll also lose the opportunity for a
Secure retirement.”

President Clinton, April 11, 1996

Issue Paper No. 7 June 1996
DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE

430 South Capitol Stecet, S.E. * Washington, D.C. 20003 * 202.863.8000 ° http://www.democrats.org
