(@)

Des5.

ToD

—7,

cr:
<3

c Women’s rape crisis centers
7 Medical research aimed at gender and specitic ic ethnic groups
= Bilingual education programs and some foreign language programs

sition will loosen current constitutional protections — giving courts much greater discretion:

Proposition 209 incorporates broad and vague terms that are unlimited in scope. Courts, therefore,
will be free to interpret and define the terms as they deem fit.

Proposition 209 opens the door for court challenges to determine which programs in public
education, employment and contracting will be effected.

California employers and schools who seek to diversify will be subject to suit under Proposition 209
because it will be illegal to do outreach.

ams Cut:

Outreach - efforts to reach out to women and minorities to encourage them to apply for public jots,
especially those in non-traditional fields; admissions; and contracts.

Programs which require prime contractors to reach out to qualified minority and women-owned
businesses so they can bid on state contracts.

Recruitment - attempts to find qualified women and minorities through ads in community
newspapers, job fairs, and placement offices at colleges and universities.

— Advertisements in minority newspapers for police officers.

Counseling - counseling programs are diverse and can include programs which provide advice to
students in everything from school problems to career placement.

Women’s resource centers on college campuses.

Tutoring and mentoring - programs designed to help students succeed in school and help people in
jobs gain more skills and leadership ability.

— Programs which aid girls in science and math courses in high school and college so that they are
encouraged to-pursue these fields later in their education and employment.

Proof of statistical disparity and discrimination can no longer be used to justify equal opportunity
programs:

Employers seeking to decrease disparity would be violating the law. Disparity figures in education>~——
could not be used as proof to institute programs with diversity and outreach goals.

Though white males constitute only 31.3% of the California workforce, statistical evidence that they
hold 53.7% of the state's high-paying administrative jobs; are 65.5% of the lawyers, and 65.8% of =
the engineers, would be of no significance in instituting an affirmative action program.
