My vision can accomplish the following for you and the rest of the country:

If you have come to a dead end with your job, visualize yourself in a quality position.
If you are in business, you will have an increase in customers and clients.

If you don’t have medical insurance or it is too expensive, look forward to having affordable
health care.

If you want to start a business, there can be available investment capital for you.

You can increase your income without changing jobs or reducing your quality of life.
A college education would be financially available for everyone who desires one.
Property values will return along with a booming economy without excess inflation.

Yes, all this and more is possible. I want my vision to become reality for my family, friends,
clients and the rest of the country. Politics have not been my suit. I have basically been content
to do a small part for hundreds of clients. My incentive to get involved is to help more people
organize their lives so that they can solve their problems and have their needs met.

During the past 200 years, we have had many combinations of taxes and spending programs.
Our politicians debate the same old fine tuning of our economy. This process has never
completely worked. I have an additional plan that makes more sense than the old tax and spend
adjustments of our current government which has created a national feeling of frustration, and
does not provide any remedy for the future.

I’ll be glad to send you an in-depth report if you have more interest in my “Economic
Vision For the 21st Century.” Just call my office at (818) 990-9777 and I will send it
immediately.

My vision is much like the two major road systems in our district--- the Ventura Freeway and
Pacific Coast Highway. When the Coast Highway has a slide or traffic jam, the Ventura Freeway
takes the overflow and it bogs down. Unless we upgrade, unjam and improve one major artery,
we can never get to where we are going easily, efficiently and on time.

This is what is happening at our Federal level because no one is improving the second major
economic power of a nation. This is the power to create, print and infuse new money into our
economic road system.

This power has mainly been franchised to our nation’s banks, like Bank of America and Wells
Fargo. Why should we have only one old, inefficient system which is underdiversified, overly
bureaucratic and fails us time and again? It was one of the major causes of the great depression.
Our future will never be unclogged until it is improved and expanded.

This reform is so important that it overshadows other issues. This reform can create many
jobs and help solve many of our problems dealing with education, urban decay, immigration,
infrastructure, the environment, and balance the budget without causing a recession. It can
effectively help fund medicare and social security well into the future.

Let me formally introduce myself. I am a second generation native Southern Californian living
in Tarzana with my wife, Ruth, of 28 years and two daughters, Andrea and Kim. They are Taft
High School graduates and are now attending public universities.

I graduated from UCLA and USC business schools with a Bachelors and Masters in Business
Administration. After serving as an officer in the U.S. Army, I went through the College of
Financial Planning. I learned about the impact that taxes, social security, insurance, investments,
budgeting, real estate and other finances have on our lives.

I have been licensed in those fields for over 20 years and have one of the oldest full- service
financial planning firms in the San Fernando Valley. It is this unique combination of educational
and professional expertise which has allowed me to successfully counsel and advise clients in all
facets of financial matters. This kind of experience is what is exactly needed to address the
Federal sai ay neneyr

I have been active in many charitable, community and industry organizations. I have taught the
tax planning course at UCLA, founded a multi million dollar financial organization, served on
the Board of Directors of the AMC Cancer Research Foundation, served as a director and officer
of the California Association for Financial Planning, the association’s state legislative arm and
the Federal Issues Committee of the Valley Industry and Commerce Association (VICA).

Here is my plan and how I am going to get results. I am going to meet with every Congressman
one on one. I have already targeted the ones with whom I will start. I will succeed because my
intention is to initiate a coalition of our leaders. This coalition’s main purpose is to start the
debate and education for monetary systems reform.

How do you know I’m not just like everyone else you probably supported in the past? Well, you
don’t. I asked myself what I would need to know and believe before I would cast my vote if this
letter came to me.

I pledge, if I cannot start to make a difference, then I will quit at the end of two years, the
end of my term. My goal is not to be a career politician, but to be a major instrument for
substantial improvement. I know that the next generation can be substantially better off!

I will quit and you have this in writing. This is not a small fine print disclaimer. It is a contract
between you and me. If I cannot make a significant difference by January 1, 1999, I am gone!

I also pledge to keep you updated on my progress by keeping a daily diary which will be posted
on the internet (or mailed) monthly for you and all the media to receive at anytime. I won’t pull
any punches. I will tell you what’s actually going on!

Let me take a few more minutes of your time to review some of my positions on the major issues.
Job Creation - My vision of capital expansion will create many new higher paying jobs. I

support most of the labor protective legislation. It is economically sound to protect and increase
customers and clients.
