There are many good reasons to vote YES on Proposition EE for a secure
public safety building with a dedicated Emergency Operations Center.

Because Santa Monica's luck can’t last forever...

aia) The current 911 system is in danger every time
there’s a disaster — even a minor one.

Everyone knows the Northridge quake knocked out the city’s 911 system. But
something as dramatic as a natural disaster isn’t necessary to interfere with police
and fire response. Santa Monica’s present 911 system — our lifeline in a personal or
citywide emergency — is located in the basement of the current police headquarters.
Right next to the sewage system. Every time the sump pump overflows, our 911
operators must wear protective masks to answer emergency calls. They must risk their
safety to protect ours.

The new public safety facility authorized by Proposition EE makes 911 secure
— with improved communications technology and automatic backup systems
for 911 operations.

FOS The city currently has no secure, dedicated
Emergency Operations Center which can

coordinate response immediately during a natural disaster.

After the Northridge quake, police and fire personnel were forced to coordinate
emergency response from a makeshift EOC in a van. But it doesn’t take a major quake
to disrupt emergency response in the current, outdated police facility.

During the confusion surrounding the recent West Coast blackout, local police officials
throughout Southern California were unable to rule out a potential act of terrorism
as the cause of the power outage. Some cities immediately activated their Emergency
Operations Centers to deal with this possibility. Not Santa Monica. For a critical period
of time, without a dedicated EOC, some of our public safety personnel had to coordinate
their emergency operations by CANDLELIGHT.

Proposition EE provides a new public safety facility with a dedicated, SECURE
Emergency Operations Center where police and firefighters can launch an
immediate response to an earthquake, a flood or other natural disaster —
or even an act of terrorism.

Fmy=] Santa Monica's current city jail, in the existing
police facility, is the oldest jail in California

— so old and inadequate it’s a danger fo city residents.

The jail in the existing police facility has no secure transfer area for violent criminals
and no separate, secure holding area for violent juvenile offenders. There’s just no
room for these facilities — essential to public safety — in the present building. The
result has been a number of escapes and near escapes of criminals in recent years.
Fortunately, none of these criminals remained at large to threaten police officers and
the public. But how long can our luck hold out?

The new public safety facility created by Proposition EE will provide a larger and
far more secure city jail that meets criminal justice standards — and will help protect
Santa Monica police officers and citizens.

jaa The inadequate criminal records facilities at the
existing city jail mean more criminals back on
the streets.

Since there’s inadequate secured space to store records at the present police building,
many criminal records are filed away and stored in other buildings miles away. But
police must book criminal suspects quickly or release them, often requiring immediate
— and currently unavailable — access to those original records, which many judges
require.

The result is that our police can be forced to write ‘‘appearance’’ tickets — just
like traffic tickets — rather than hold domestic abuse suspects, gang members, drug
dealers or anyone else subject to a term in jail rather than state prison. These criminal
suspects are then released almost immediately back onto our streets.

A secure, adequate and accessible criminal records area is part of the new
public safety facilities building that will result from Proposition EE — keeping
criminals off our streets and making Santa Monica safer for all of us.

The evidence room at the present police building
is too small, not secure and open to contamination
— another opportunity for criminals to go free.

Since the evidence room in the present Santa Monica police building is inadequate,
stored evidence in criminal cases is often kept off-site — not in secure police custody
— making its retrieval difficult and opening the evidence to legal challenges that it
has been compromised.

Even worse, while the evidence is being processed in the cramped facilities at the
existing police facility, it’s subject to contamination from water and sewer leakage in
the dilapidated building. All these facts combine to give criminals hope that they will
soon be back on our streets,

Proposition EE’s new public safety facility will include plenty of room to
secure and store evidence necessary to convict criminals and get them off
our streets.

Supervision of Santa Monica police, firefighters
ie e
and paramedics now operate out of different
J ie e
locations and on different systems — leading to potential
e e e
confusion during emergency response to natural disasters
e e
and even during everyday safety operations.

During the Northridge quake, with the 911 system out of commission, police,

firefighters and paramedics had to spend precious time coordinating public safety
response because there was no consolidated Emergency Operations Center. We were
lucky last time that no lives were lost as a result. But we can’t count on that luck holding
through the next major quake — or in an everyday public safety situation.
By locating and consolidating all public safety emergency response
operations at the new facility, Proposition EE ensures quick, efficient and
effective coordination of public safety personnel’s response to emergency
situations.

FO4 These public safety problems don’t have to

e e e
continue in Santa Monica. We can ease the threat
e e
to city residents.

Proposition EE provides for replacement of Santa Monica’s obsolete years old police
facility. The existing building simply does not provide for current or future public safety
needs in our community. ,

The new public safety facility authorized by Proposition EE would be located just
east of City Hall and consolidate police, fire and paramedic administrative operations
in the city (in addition to existing neighborhood substations), as well as establish a
dedicated, secure Emergency Operations Center in the same location. The coordinated
dispatch facilities for police, firefighters and paramedics will ensure faster response
time in natural disasters and in everyday emergencies. And the new facility will house
an improved 911 system with essential automatic backups.

Proposition EE means more efficient and more effective police, fire and
paramedic operations in Santa Monica.

3] Proposition EE represents the most cost-effective
e e e e ie
way fo provide this enormous increase in public
J e
safety — with the cost shared by everyone who benefits
e
from a safer community.

The bond financing method Proposition EE outlines for the new public safety facility
is cost-effective. Without passage of Proposition EE, construction of the new public
safety facility could take years longer — and would cost the city’s taxpayers millions
more in higher interest costs.

Even worse, the cost of the new facility is dwarfed by the cost in dollars (not to mention
human lives) that could result from an earthquake, major fire or structure collapse
in which our public safety professionals must coordinate their response from the
existing, inadequate and unsafe police facility.

Finally, Proposition EE is the fairest way to provide for this essential public safety
facility — with homeowners, renters and businesses all paying their fair share.
With Proposition EE, everyone benefits — and everyone shares fairly in the
cost.

Be Santa Monicans support Measure EE because it's

cost-effective, fair and necessary to protect
public safety.

Police Chief James Butts and Fire Chief Richard Bridges have said we need a new
public safety facility with a dedicated Emergency Operations Center.

Thousands of Santa Monicans from across the political spectrum agree. They have
joined together to help pass Proposition EE and increase our community’s safety.
The City Council, the Santa Monica Police Officers Association, the Santa
Monica Firefighters Association, the Santa Monica/Malibu School Board,
the Santa Monica Chamber of Commerce, the Santa Monica Commission
on Older Americans, the Santa Monica Youth Athletic Foundation, Santa
Monicans for Renter Rights (SMRR), the Outlook, Coalition for a Safe
Santa Monica and thousands of our neighbors urge you to vote YES on
Proposition EE.

These Santa Monicans all agree that it’s essential to move forward by voting
YES on the Public Safety Facility Bond issue — Prop. EE — on November 5.

<a38 Proposition EE means a safer Santa Monica.

Vote YES for a safer Santa Monica
Vote YES on Proposition EE
