Yes On es - Highways & Bridges |
roposition 192

|e 8 8 8 8 he UD UD UD UU Ue UU. UG. |

Seismic Retrofit Bond Act

= A Matter of Economic Survival for the Construction Industry

Proposition 192 is more than a matter of economic survival
for the construction industry: If it fails, not only will lives be

“When voters are educated lost in the next big quake but we will see a large number of
south tbe faci ef Ere postior projects delayed or cancelled altogether, which will hurt the
192, upwards of 62 percent are construction industry. There are two important business
ian faror.oy paceman (Ur #7 Pe, reasons to support Proposition 192:
research shows that if our
messages are delivered to voters
in sufficient magnitudes, « Every project approved by the California Transportation Commission

in the State Transportation Improvement Plan (STIP) will be delayed

two to five years because of an almost $5 billion shortfall in the

: highway account. Fewer contracts will be let, and those that are will
have sufficient resources to be postponed without passage of the Seismic Retrofit Bond Act.

deliver our messages to voters.”

Proposition 192 in winnable.
The Campaign must, however,

¢ Proposition 192 puts an additional $2 billion dollars towards the
Paul B. Holm Jr overall funds available for highway construction projects. Whether
Vice President a company engages in retrofiting or not, an additional $2 billion in
Charlton Research Company construction funds will be a direct benefit to our industry.

Lets get behind Proposition 192; it is important not only to the construction
industry, but to California business also. Without our public and financial support,
the campaign faces an uphill battle. Please join us in supporting Proposition 192.

WW’

Dave Watts, President & CEO
Granite Construction Incorporated

Kirk West, President
California Chamber of Commerce

Paid for by Californians For Safe Highways & Bridges, Yes On Proposition 192, A Coalition of Business, Construction Industry and Labor.

