Analysis by the Legislative Analyst

BACKGROUND

Campaign Contribution and Spending Limits.
Federal law limits the amount of money individuals and
groups can contribute to a candidate and to the
candidate’s campaign committee for federal elective
office. State law generally does not impose similar limits
on state and local campaigns. However, some local
governments in California have established such limits
for local elective offices.

In addition, current state law contains no limits on the
amounts of personal loans or personal funds candidates
can use for their own elections. Also, there are no
aggregate limits on what individuals and groups can
contribute to all candidates for state and local elective
offices. Furthermore, there are no prohibitions on
lobbyists making, transmitting, or arranging campaign
contributions. Finally, there are no limits on the amounts
of money candidates or their campaign committees, or
other groups in support of the candidate, can spend in
any election.

Reporting Requirements. Both state and federal
law require candidates for elective office to report
contributions they receive and spend for their campaigns.
In addition, state law requires that lobbyists register
with the Secretary of State’s office.

Lobbying Expenses. Under current state law,
organizations and businesses may deduct from their
income taxes expenses for lobbying public agencies.

Restrictions on Gifts, Honoraria, and Travel.
Current state law contains restrictions on the amounts of
gifts, honoraria (payments for speeches, articles, or
attendance at meetings or gatherings), and travel
payments that may be accepted by public officials.

Court Review. The specific provisions of this
measure have not been reviewed by either state or
federal courts. In California and other states, a number
of provisions similar to those contained in this measure
have been challenged in court and have been invalidated.

PROPOSAL

This measure makes a number of changes to current
state law regarding campaign contributions and
spending. Specifically, the measure: -

¢ Limits the amount of campaign contributions that

an individual or group can make to a candidate for
state and local elective office and prohibits lobbyists
from making contributions.
Establishes both mandatory and voluntary
campaign spending limits.
Limits when campaign fund-raising may occur.
Eliminates current restrictions on public officials
receiving gifts and honoraria.
¢ Eliminates tax deductions for lobbying expenses.
Establishes penalties for violations of the measure
and increases penalties for existing campaign law
violations.

G96

Limits on Campaign Contributions

Limits on Contributions to a Single Candidate.
The measure establishes limits on the amount of political
campaign contributions that an individual, committee,
and political party may make to a candidate for
statewide office (such as the Governor), the state
Legislature, and local elective office. Businesses, labor
organizations, and nonprofit corporations would be
prohibited from making contributions. This measure
prohibits the transfer of campaign funds from one
candidate to another. This measure does not set limits for
any candidates for federal office. Figure 1 summarizes
these limits.

Proposition 212
Campaign Contribution Limits

Candidate for:

Legislative and
Local Elective
Office

$100
Prohibited *

Statewide
Office

$200
Prohibited *

Contributor

Individual

Business, labor
organization, and
nonprofit corporation

Political party

“Citizen Contribution
Committee” °

Lobbyist

Transfer from
other candidate

* While these entities are prohibited from making campaign contributions,
they may provide other campaign-related support.

® Defined by the measure as a committee with 25 or more members, none of
whom contribute more than $25 to the committee in a calendar year, and is
not controlled by any candidate.

$100
$10,000

$200
$20,000

Prohibited
Prohibited

Prohibited
Prohibited

Out-of-District Contribution Limits. The measure
provides that at least 75 percent of a candidate’s
campaign contributions must come from individuals of
voting age residing within the jurisdiction of the office
sought by the candidate.

Limits on Contributions to All Candidates. The
measure restricts the total amount an individual can
contribute to all candidates. An individual is limited to
making contributions totaling no more than $2,000 per
year to all candidates, committees, and political parties.
Of this amount, no more than $1,000 may be contributed
to committees other than to political parties. Entities
other than individuals are limited to contributions
totaling no more than $10,000 per year to all state and
local candidates, committees, and political parties. These
limitations on contributions do not apply to Citizen
Contribution Committees.

43
