BOB
7 DOLE

OR PRESIDENT.
BOB DOLE

COMMON SENSE CONSERVATIVE

Recognized as one of our nation’s foremost political figures. Senator Bob Dole has a
distinguished record of public service that has made a difference for America.

As a wounded and decorated combat veteran of World War II, Bob Dole grew up on the
plains of western Kansas. This common sense conservative from America’s heartland
has had unparalleled experience as Senate Majority Leader, Chairman of the Senate
Finance Committee, a candidate for President, his party’s nominee for Vice President, a
member of the House of Representatives, the Chairman of the Republican Party, a state
legislator, and a county attorney.

LEADERSHIP

President Reagan said of Senator Dole that “His title of Leader is not just a job title, it’s a
description of the man.” President Bush went on to call Senator Dole “a great Republican
Leader. as great as any in the past.” Bob Dole is only one of 15 Americans ever to serve
as Senate Majority Leader, and his first stint in that position in the mid-1980"s won
national praise. The Congressional Quarterly cited Senator Dole as having “proved a
point that badly needed proving at the time. The Senate could be led.”

Senator Dole’s effectiveness as a consensus-builder and his commitment to both deficit
reduction and economic growth have earned him accolades from his peers - Republicans,
Independents. and Democrats alike. On issue after issue, Senator Dole is a statesman
who has made his mark. A survey conducted by the Des Muines Register concluded that
Senator Dole is “easily (America’s) most influential maker of farm policy.” Senator Dole
has earned national praise for his leadership on behalf of the disadvantaged and
Americans with disabilities, and for his mastery of foreign affairs.

SACRIFICE

During World War LI, Bob Dole was a platoon leader in the legendary Tenth Mountain
Division in Italy. He was gravely wounded on the battlefield in 1945 and twice decorated
for heroic achievement. His decorations include two Purple Hearts and a Bronze Star
with Oakleaf Cluster.

FAMILY
Senator Dole was bait in Russell. Kansas. and is married to Elizabeth Hanford Dole who

is on a leave of absence from her job as President of the American Red Cross. Senator
Dole also has a daughter, Robin. who resides in Washington. DC.

Authorized and paid for by Dole for President, inc.. Robert Lighthizer, Treasurer
810 First Street, Northeast * Suite 300 * Washington. D.C. 20CU2 » (202) 414-6400
