:

SEP 27 ’96 @3:52PM CALIF. NURSES ASSOC. Palizs

HMO Casualty
of the Day

September 25,1996

Katherine Hallisy
San Francisco, CA

Mother Leaves Critically Il] Child’s Bedside to Fight With HMO; Worries About Future Care.
(Teid by Katherine’s mother, Dr. Julia A. Hallisy)

In early October, 1989 our second child, Katherine Eileen, was born. I was an associate in a wonderful dental
practice located five minutes from our new home. I can still remember thinking there was little else we could

want or need.

By mid-October, 1989 life as we knew it came to a screeching halt. Katherine, our chubby five month old
daughter, was diagnosed with bilateral retinoblastoma and possibly a brain tumor as well. When [ remember
those days I visualize a blur of doctor visits, the tertified faces of family and friends and the paralyzing fear
of all the unknowns awaiting us. We thought our only struggle would be to keep our daughter alive. We had
no idez that many days our greatest battle would not involve cancer cells but dollars.

While we deait with our daughter's diagnosis on an emotional, physical and spiritual level, our HMO moved
inte action to evaluate her rare disorder and their ability to treat her “in house.” This resulietl in some celays.in
treatment while her physicians made dozens of phone calls and sent numerous faxes and letters. After her “out
of plan” services were authorized the HMO waited as long as nine months to pay her bills. We were receiving
threatening collection letters from a multitude of sources. Many even refused to deal with our HMO and request
ed that we pay for the services ourselves. The issues were finally resclved after we made a personal visit to the
main office of cur HMO and threatened to make a complaint to the State of California insurance commission.

There were many months that my day began phoning the HMO to check on the status of claims anv? phoning
providers to assure them that payment would be forthcoming. As you can imagine, this greatly infringed on
the Uinte I couk? spend comforting my dauyhter froni the pain and side effects of radiation, chemotherapy,
bone marivy aspirations, bone scans, spinal taps, etc. Dealing with child}wod cancer is an all-consuming
respuasibility. In time, I learued to dea) with the HMO directly and aggressively. I knew I had to be the tire-
less advocate my child necded. I regularly mailed the director of our meclica! group pictures of our daughter
with updites on her progress. I was determined that he was not going to be able to think of her as a namc~
less, facele:

» medical condition.

Our daughter is now seven years old. She has won her war against cancer the hard way —baitle by battle. The
cost wa. the loss of much of her early childhood, the loss of her right eye and orbital tissues and seven recon-
structive surgeries to date. I worry about her future health and her chance to have quality medical care for
life. When the CEOs ot every health maintenance organization have to answer to their memibers instead of
their shareholders there may be hope

Every day until the November 5 election—wher Californians will vote on the new patient sufcguards against managed care abuses
estattislivd by Proposition 216- - the face and story of another casually of manages care care-cutting will be faxed to media, opinioit
leaders, and to nurse leaders throughout the stale who will distribute and post the stories daity in lunch rooms, consinarity nivet-

ings, ane other pubric places.
For more infarimatien, contact Chuck Idelson 415-437-3325 or Jamie Court 310-292-0522

: Lr ee Raina Ra DIT Print Time Con 99 ‘
ceived Lime ve0. ¢ S.d0ra tin e 8 c 2: UU

