PG -C Ro

COMMON QUESTIONS ASKED ABOUT THE
CALIFORNIA CIVIL RIGHTS INITIATIVE

1. Why is the California Civil Rights Initiative needed in California?

Although it is unlawful to discriminate against people on the basis of their race, sex or ethnicity, the state
of California is legally allowed to discriminate against certain individuals for these reasons. The
California Civil Rights Initiative corrects this inconsistency by prohibiting any discrimination or
preferential treatment based on race, sex, color, ethnicity or national origin in state contracting,
employment or education programs.

2. Has the California Civil Rights Initiative qualified for the ballot?

Yes. In February, the California Civil Rights Initiative campaign turned in more than | million
signatures, 350,000 more than necessary. On April 16, the Secretary of State announced that the
California Civil Rights Initiative qualified for the November ballot.

3. What level of public support does the California Civil Rights Initiative have?

In the latest Los Angeles Times poll (March 1996), two-thirds of all registered voters supported the
California Civil Rights Initiative. The initiative enjoys the support of people belonging to all political
parties, races, genders, and ethnicities.

4. Will the California Civil Rights Initiative be a wedge issue?

The California Civil Rights Initiative is an issue people care about. Last year, the leadership of the
California Civil Rights Initiative campaign reached out to Democrats -- through personal meetings, in
telephone calls, by letter. We will continue to reach out to people of all political parties. Furthermore,
everyone connected with this effort tried very hard to get this on the March '96 ballot, not the November
'96 ballot. But the State Legislature -- led by Willie Brown -- refused to do that. The people decrying
this debate as a "wedge issue" are the very people who ensured that the California Civil Rights Initiative
would appear on the November ballot.

5. How does the California Civil Rights Initiative impact current state and federal civil
rights laws?

The California Civil Rights Initiative would leave all existing federal and state civil rights protections
intact. The burden of proof that California's public employers, contracting agencies and educational
institutions must meet when facing civil rights challenges to their practices also would remain
unchanged.

6. Won't the California Civil Rights Initiative harm race relations in the state?

No. In fact, the California Civil Rights Initiative will help race relations in California. Currently, the
public is frustrated because civil rights laws are not applied consistently. The California Civil Rights
Initiative will eliminate the growing divisiveness, because it will require government to be fair.

California Civil Rights Initiative / Yes on Proposition 209
A Project of Californians Against Discrimin r and Preferences !.D. # 931-039

