STRENGTHENING DEMOCRACY

use such “soft money” to buy support for
their cause, thus sacrificing the best interest
of the American people.

Restrict lobbying. Strictly limit the ability
of former public servants to lobby on behalf
of domestic and foreign interests.

Eliminate congressional privileges. Pub-
lic servants should abide by the same laws
as every American citizen. Free mailings,
congressional pensions, and other special
privileges should be limited.

NOTES

. U.S. Supreme Court, Sweezy v. New Hamp-
shire, 1957.

. Personal communication from Richard
Winger, editor of Ballot Access News, San
Francisco.

. See the 1990 Document of Copenhagen
Meeting of the Conference of Security and
Cooperation in Europe (CSCE).

4.

42

“House incumbents raised $45.5 million dur-
ing the first six months of 1995, compared
with $34 million in the first six months of
1993. The bulk of this money comes from
about 10% of the population and from po-
litical action committees (PACs) of corpo-
rations and trade groups like the American
Bar Association” (U.S. News & World Re-
port, February 12, 1996, p. 34).

“Since the start of 1991, the [state] parties
have raised nearly $850 million in federal
accounts and $230 million in soft money.
Both corporations and individuals can give
soft money. Tobacco companies like Philip
Morris ($787,000) and Brown & Williamson
($260,000) were among the top soft-money
givers to the Republicans in the first half of
1995” (ibid).

ABORTION

THE NATURAL LAW PARTY is commit-
ted to substantially reducing the number of abor-
tions in America. However, the Natural Law
Party holds that the best way to reduce abortions
is through education—not through legislation.

The Natural Law Party supports proven educa-
tional programs to bring individual and national
life into harmony with natural law. These pro-
grams develop intelligence and creativity,
improve moral reasoning, and promote farsighted
thinking and actions that do not create problems.
Such education alone can produce the changes
in behavior that will reduce unwanted pregnan-
cies. Only the Natural Law Party’s strong edu-
cational approach, by changing attitudes and
behaviors from the inside out, can offer preven-
tion on a realistic basis.

Our nation’s history shows that it is difficult to
legislate morality. Laws forbidding the manu-
facture and sale of alcohol during Prohibition had
little effect on alcohol consumption. Instead, they
led to the birth of the underground and the most
murderous epoch in our nation’s history. Simi-
larly, legislation to outlaw abortions will simply
lead to illegal abortions.

For this reason, the Natural Law Party believes
that it is counterproductive for the Federal Goy-
ernment to outlaw abortion.

Furthermore, the Natural Law Party holds that
the moral responsibility for this decision should
be left in the hands of those whose lives are
affected most—the mother, the family, and the
doctor—not the Federal Government.

At the same time, the Natural Law Party encour-
ages a shift from public to private funding of
abortion—specifically, private charity by those
who wish to make abortion accessible for women
who cannot afford it. Over time, the govern-
ment should eliminate the use of taxpayer dol-

43

lars to fund abortion as a method of birth con-
trol, especially because such use of public funds
is morally offensive to millions of taxpayers.
The Natural Law Party would allow public fund-
ing of abortions in cases of rape, incest, or medi-
cal necessity.

The Natural Law Party further believes that pri-
vate charity to fund abortions could be better
used to support proven, community-based pro-
grams such as CareNet, which reaches out to
women with crisis pregnancies to offer them both
material and emotional support, and the “One
Church, One Child” adoption initiative founded
by Fr. George Clements, which has enabled over
50,000 children to find loving parents and a nur-
turing home environment.

The Natural Law Party’s “antigovernment”
stance regarding abortion—neither subsidizing
abortions nor legislating them away—is the only
defensible position from the standpoint of the
U.S. Constitution, which states in the 10th
Amendment that “The powers not delegated to
the United States by the Constitution, nor pro-
hibited by it to the States, are reserved to the
States respectively, or to the people.”

The Natural Law Party’s prevention-oriented
approach to reducing the number of abortions
will produce a much needed unifying influence
on our nation, which has been deeply torn by
this highly divisive issue. Our policy serves the
interest of both those who are pro-life and those
who are pro-choice by (a) decreasing the num-
ber of abortions more effectively than legisla-
tion and (b) leaving moral responsibility in the
hands of those whose lives are affected most.
Only the Natural Law Party can solve the prob-
lem of abortion at its basis and thereby fulfill
the goals of all Americans—those who empha-
size the sanctity of life and those who uphold
the sanctity of individual freedom.

