2

Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act (MICRA). However, because the
language in the initiative can be amended by a 2/3 vote of the Legislature to
"further the act's purpose," a future Legislature could enact a law giving
lawyers an even Jarger share of contingency fees. But any decrease would
require a new initiative.

The Legislature has found selected instances when fee controls are
necessary to protect clients in legal actions. Why should the voters prohibit
the Legislature from taking such action in the future? Laws have been
passed to protect consumers from unfair contracts in many different areas.
Why should lawyers be given special treatment by prohibiting laws from
ever being passed to make sure the contracts they write with clients are fair.

B. Other established fee limits or fee limiting processes which are not specifically
"provided by law" (for example, established by court or administrative rules)
may be eliminated or weakened by this initiative. For example, court rules in
most counties protect children by limiting contingency fees to 25% when the
plaintiff is a minor. Administrative processes set contingency fees at no more
than 12% in workers compensation cases in order to protect benefits for injured
employees.

What justification is there for endangering attorney fee oversight which
protect settlements for children? What justification is there for threatening
fee limits which protect settlements for injured workers?

(Cy Lawmakers and people everywhefe are becoming concerned over class action
lawsuits where the lawyers get huge settlements and their clients end up with
practically nothing. In a recent housing discrimination case in Orange County,
lawyers took $645,000 from a $775,000 settlement! In a case against a cereal
maker, lawyers got $1.5 million and their clients got coupons for more cereal!
Proposition 207 would prevent any new laws to make sure class action lawyers'
fees are at least reasonable.

Why do lawyers want to block laws to bring fairness to class action lawsuit
attorney fees?

1D Current law requires lawyers to inform their clients in writing whether or not
they carry malpractice insurance. But that law automatically ends next year. If
Proposition 207 passes, the Legislature will be prevented from extending this
consumer-protection requirement.

Why do lawyers want to limit what they disclose to a new client?
0G Frivolous Lawsuits (Initiative Section 3)
