Where th

WAGE STANDARDS
Opposed an increase in the federal minimum wage.

Supported legislation during the current
congressional session to repeal the Davis-Bacon Act,
the law that requires contractors on federally
financed public works projects to pay prevailing
wages.

HEALTH CARE

Opposed the Family and Medical Leave Act, which
provides workers with unpaid leave during family
medical emergencies.

Supports turning Medicaid over to the states,
including the power to decide who is covered and the
benefit levels for recipients.

WORKERS’ RIGHTS

Orchestrated a filibuster in 1993 that killed the
Workplace Fairness Act, the bill that would have
prohibited employers from hiring permanent
replacements for strikers.

Supported the TEAM Act, which would have legalized
company unions.

Supports national right-to-work legislation, which
would severely weaken the ability of local unions to
bargain for the members they represent.

FAIR TAXES

Voted to cut Medicare by $270 billion and Medicaid
by $170 billion in order to give tax breaks to big
business and the wealthy.

Backs a flat tax system that cuts capital gains taxes
for investors as well as business taxes, while
increasing taxes on middle-income families.

Proposes reduction of the “marriage penalty” and a
$500 tax credit per child.

SOCIAL SECURITY & PENSIONS

Voted against an amendment to exclude and protect
Social Security from a constitutional balanced budget
amendment.

Supported legislation that would allow raids on
pensions by corporations.

President

Bill Clinton

y stand on

rGouccmimportant to
NGGuMing people.

WAGE STANDARDS

>

>»

Recently signed into law a bill to increase the federal
minimum wage by 90 cents.

Has threatened to veto any bill that weakens or
repeals the Davis Bacon Act.

Opposes laws to allow employers to force work
beyond 40 hours per week without overtime pay.

HEALTH CARE

>

>

Signed into law the Family and Medical Leave Act
during his first year in office.

Vetoed the Republican-sponsored budget
reconciliation bill that contained massive cuts in
Medicare, education, workplace safety and other
programs important to working families.

Signed HR 3666 which prohibits insurers from limiting
new mothers’ hospital stays to less than 48 hours.

WORKERS’ RIGHTS

>

Supported Workplace Fairness Act. When measure
stalled in Senate because of Dole’s filibuster, signed
an executive order banning the use of federal
contractors who have employed replacement
workers.

Vetoed the TEAM Act, which would have made it
legal for employers to establish company unions.

Opposes national laws which would end union
membership requirements for those represented by
collective bargaining agreements

FAIR TAXES

»

>»

Opposed congressional efforts to cut Medicare,
Medicaid and education to provide a tax break for big
business and the rich.

Expanded the Earned Income Tax Credit program to
provide lower and lower-middle income families with
greater tax savings.

Supports tax credits for middle-income families with
children and for education costs.

SOCIAL SECURITY & PENSIONS

>.
>

Opposes cuts in or major changes to Social Security.

Opposes raiding of pension funds by corporations.

Compare for yourself. Then vote on November 5

Faq {nr listers for Ganges

for the candidate who will best represent you as a working person.

Doug Kahn Democrat

Working to protect your wages

Q Supports Proposition 210 to raise the
minimum wage.

Q Supports the prevailing wage.

Q Supports the eight-hour day and overtime
pay.

Working to protect your rights and

security

Q Affirms California workers’ right to strong
enforcement of occupational safety and
health regulations at all levels.

Q Opposes outsourcing public services to -
private vendors at the local, state, and
federal levels. Supports quality services and
accountability to taxpayers.

Protecting pensions, benefits a top

priority

QO Opposes “medical savings accounts,” health
care that works for the healthy & wealthy .

Q First priority - to extend health care coverage
to working families and children (News-
Press, 9/3/96).

For your rights and job security

Q Opposes legislation allowing employers to set
up management-controlled committees to
replace real unions (HR 743).

James Rogan Republican

Attacks workers’ wages

) Voted to oppose taking a position on the
minimum wage increase (SB 1315).

Q Voted to attach loopholes to any increase
(SB 500).

Q Voted to repeal the prevailing wage.

Attacks workers’ benefits

Q Opposed benefits for widows and orphans of
slain public employees (AB 399).

Q Voted to weaken public retirement benefits
(AB 3252).

Q Voted to outsource public services, including
police and fire protection, to private
vendors (AB 2081).

Favors corporate interests over workers’

rights

Q Voted to increase the allowable exposure to
asbestos 1000% (AB 269).

© Voted for tax breaks for the oil, airline and
real estate industries, and Pete Wilson’s
15% tax break that favors wealthy
taxpayers.

cd27
