FRIENDS COMMITTEE ON LEGISLATION OF CALIFORNIA

926 J STREET #707. @ SACRAMENTO @ CALIFORNIA 95814-2707 @ (916) 443-3734

NO on Proposition 194

Currently, when prisoners leave their Joint Venture jobs
inside prisons because they have completed their sentences, they
may file for unemployment insurance. Proposition 194 would
establish an exception to the general rule that employers must pay
unemployment insurance for their workers, by excusing Joint Venture
employers from the requirement to pay this benefit.

The Joint Venture program, which is currently operating at a
loss to the taxpayers, was established in 1991 in the Department of
Corrections by Proposition 139. The program at this time employs
about 150 prisoners out of 136,000: it has never employed more than
240 prisoners in a given year. Despite numerous incentives the
program offers to business owners, it has proven difficult to
entice them into the Department of Corrections. Joint Venture
employers don’t have to pay high wages.---minimum wage is the
average, they don’t have to provide their prisoner employees with
medical, dental, or vision insurance, and they don’t have to pay
sick or vacation leave. They pay no retirement benefit. In
addition, they receive a tax credit on their payroll, and they pay
below-market rents on the prison facility in which their business
operates.

For many prospective employers, these attractive incentives
don’t outweigh the reality of security and custody needs inside
prisons that may severely limit their business operations. Due to
prison lockdowns, some employers have not been able to fulfill
their contractual obligations, as prisoners - who want to work, are
unable to leave their cells. Another impediment to marketing
success is the custody staff. The guards whose job it is to
inspect vehicles entering and leaving the prison place no higher a
priority on Joint Venture business trucks and delivery vehicles
than any other. As a result, goods that should be on their way to
retailers or other purchasers are delayed inside the prison. These
factors, plus the Department of Correction’s lack of expertise in
marketing business opportunities for small companies, are the
reasons the Joint Venture program is unsuccessful.

THE FCL IS A QUAKER-SPONSORED LEGISLATIVE ACTION GROUP.
