SECTION 4, CLIENTS' RIGHTS TO HIRE AND FIRE ATTOR-
NEY

Section 6146.5 is added to the Business and Professions Code
to read:

6146.5(a) Except as otherwise provided by Jaw in effect on
January 1, 1995 or by the provisions of this Act, the right of aclient
or a client's representative to choose and contract with the
attorney of his or her choice shall not be restricted, nor shall the
fight of a cilent or the client's representative to negotiate the
amount of an attomey's fee, whether fixed, hourly or contingent,
be restricted or the validity of such contracts be impaired.

{b) A client shall have the right to discharge his or her
attorney at any time during the course of the representatian.

{c} Notwithstanding the terms of any contract entered into
pursuant to Sections 6146, 6147, and 6148 of this chapter,
attorneys who are discharged before a case is finally concluded
shall be entitled to compensation only as set forth below:

(1) Attorneys who have entered into contingency fee
contracts pursuant to Sections 6146 and 6147 shall be entitled to
compensation only in the event the client recovers an award or
settlement in the matter for which the attarney had been retained.
In the event of such an award or settlement, the attorney shail be
entitied to any unreimbursed expenses advanced or incurred by
the attorney during the course of the in and to the
reasonabie vaiue of the attorney's services rendered to the time
of discharge.

(2) Attorneys who have entered into hourly rate
contracts for services pursuant to Section 6148 shall be
entitied to payment at the agreed-upon rate for reasonabie
services rendered and expenses advanced or incurred during
the course of the representation to the time of discharge.
Attomeys who have contracted for a flat fee or any other
method of compensation not subject to Sections 6146 and
6147 shail be entitled to any unreimbursed expenses ad-
vanced or incurred and the reasonable value of their services
to the time of discharge.

(d) Nothing in this section shail limit or otherwise affect any
taw in effect on January 1, 1995, with regard to attorneys’ fees, or
impair the Inherent authority of the courts to regulate the practice
of law or to prohibit illegal or unconscionable fees, or the authority
of a court in a particular case to find that a fee ia excessive
pursuant to Section 6146.1.

SECTION 5S. RELIEF FROMEXCESSIVE ATTORNEYS’ FEES

Section 6146.1 is added to the Business and Professions Code,
to read:

6146.1(a) No attorney shall enter into an agreement for,
charge, or collect an excessive fea,

(b) In addition to any other remedies at law, a client may
bring an action against an attornay to seek declaratory relief that
a fee agreement or a partion of the fee required by that agreement
is excessive, or to racaver that portion of a fae collected or
withheid that is excessive.

(¢) In addition to any other remedies at law, in an action
brought by an attorney against a client for breach of a fee
agreement, the client may file a cross-complaint or assert an

09/09/96

affirmative defense alleging that the fee agreement or a portion
of the fee required by that agreement is excessive.

(d) For purposes of this Act, an excessive fee is defined as
one that is unconscionable. In determining whether a fee or a fee
agreement is unconscionable, the court shall consider the follow-
ing factors, in light of all the facts and circumstances:

(1) The amount of the fee in proportion to the value of
the services performed.
(2) The relative sophistication of the attomey and the

(3) The novelty and difficulty of the questions in-
volved and the skill requisite to perform the legal service properly.

(4) The fact or Itkelinood that the acceptance of the
particular employment would or did preclude other employment
by the attomey.

(5) The amount invoived and the rasults obtained.

(6) The time limitations imposed by the client or by
circumstances.

(7) The nature and length of the professional relation-
ship with the client.

(8) The experience, reputation, and ability of the
attorney performing the services, inciuding his or her capacity
because of that reputation or ability to secure a better result for
the client,

(9) Whether the fee is fixed, hourly, or contingent,
including whether the fee reflects the risk that the representation
could result in little or no recovery.

{10) The time and labor required.

(11) The informed consent of the client to the fee
agreement.

(12) Whether the attorney has advanced costs in fur-
therance of the representation, and the amount thereof.

{13) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the
conscionability of the fee.

(e@) Nothing in this section shall affect the right of the
attorney to be reimbursed for actua! costs advanced or incurred.

RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER INITIATIVES

The psople recognize that more than one measure dealing with
the general matters set forth in this measure may be on the ballot
at the same time. it is the intent of the voters in passing this
measure that it be considered for purposes of Article Il, section
10(b) of the Califomia Constitution, to be in conflict with the
“Lawyer Contingency Fee Limitation Act" and any other similar
measure attempting to limit the right of a client and an attorney to
contract with each other for legal services and te enforce euch
contracts.

SECTION 7. SEVERABILITY

client.

SECTION 6.

lf any provision of this act or its application to any person or
circumstance is hald invalid, that invalidity shail nat affect ather
provisions or applications of the act which can be given effect
without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the
provisions of this act are severable.

SECTION & AMENDMENT

The provisions of this act may be amended by a statute that
becomes effective upon approval by the electorate or by a statute
to further the act's purposes passed by a two-thirds vote of each
house of the Legislature and signed by the Governor.

11:25 TX/RX NO.0521 P.003
