Dear Voter

On November 5, 1996, you have the opportunity to elect pro-choice leaders who will defend your right to choose. In 1996,
Planned Parenthood experienced overwhelming attacks on women's right to choose, family planning and responsible sex educa-
tion in Congress as well as the California Legislature. In the past two years, the U.S. House of Representatives voted 58 times
and the U.S. Senate voted 51 times to limit access to health services, reproductive choices, or both. During the 1995-96 Califor-
nia Legislative Session, the Assembly attempted to limit access 25 times and the Senate 12 times. If women do not have adequate
access to family planning and reproductive health options then it will become a right on paper, unable to be exercised.

The Planned Parenthood Advocacy Project rated candidates based on their answers to our questionnaire, voting records if they

held office, and other public records. A candidate is considered pro-choice if they meet the following criteria:

¢ Supports the terms of Roe v. Wade and opposes any attempt to overturn Roe either judicially, legislatively, by the regulatory
process, or in any other manner;

¢ Supports public funding of abortions, prenatal care, family planning, and other reproductive health care services for low
income women and all who rely on the government for their health care

* Supports the right of a minor to confidential family planning, prenatal care, abortion, and sexually transmitted disease
screening and treatment services;

* Opposes spousal consent requirements;

¢ Opposes any government-imposed intimidation requirements including mandated state scripts, 24 hour waiting period, clinic
regulations that do not relate to protecting women's lives or health, any legislation, regulation, initiative, referendum, or
judicial ruling that impedes women's access to abortion services;

ipports comprehensive, appropriate sexuality and AIDS education in public schools; and

* Supports enactment of laws and enforcement of existing laws that protect reproductive health care providers, their staff and

patients, and their families from the ongoing campaign of violence, intimidation, and harassment being waged against them.

On November 5, support candidates who support Planned Parenthood and your right to choose. Keep the choice you

Vote November 5, 1996.
If you have any questions regarding this voter guide, please contact the Advocacy Project at (213) 223-4462

CONGRESSIONAL STATE SENATE AND
QUESTIONS ASSEMBLY QUESTIONS

1) Do you support a woman’s right to a safe and legal abortion? 1) Do you support a woman’s right to a safe and legal abortion?
2) Do you support access to abortion without a state imposed 2) Do you support access to abortion without a state imposed
lecture on fetal development and/or a 24 hour waiting period? lecture on fetal development and/or a 24 hour waiting period?
3) Do you support comprehensive age-appropriate sexuality 3) Do you support comprehensive age-appropriate sexuality
education and sexually transmitted infections (including HIV/ education and sexually transmitted infections (including HIV/
AIDS) education as a curriculum component in public schools? AIDS) education as a curriculum component in public schools?
4) Do you support a minor’s right to confidential access to: 4) Do you support a minor’s right to confidential access to:
a. contraceptive services, sexually transmitted a. contraceptive services, sexually transmitted infections
infections screening and treatment? screening and treatment?
b. an abortion without parental consent, notification or a b. an abortion without parental consent, notification or a
judicial bypass? judicial bypass?
5) Do you support laws that protect patients, doctors, other health 5) Do you support laws that protect patients, doctors, other health
care professionals and their families from harassment? care professionals and their families from harassment?
6) a. Do you support continued funding for family planning 6) a. Do you support continued funding for family planning
programs such as Title X? programs?
b. Would you support an increase of that funding? b. Would you support an increase of that funding?
7) Do you support public funding of abortion services forlow-income 7) Do you support state public funding of abortion services for
women? low-income women?
8) Do you support funding family planning services as part of U.S. 8) Do you support continued funding of pregnancy-related services
international programs without restrictions on providing abortion for undocumented residents?
information or services? 9) Do you support coverage of prescriptive contraceptives under
9) Do you support removing the current restrictions that prohibit health care insurance plans that cover other prescriptive drugs?
overseas military personnel from obtaining abortion services in 10) Do you support a non-profit organization’s ability to advocate on
military facilities using their own funds? behalf of the clients they serve, even if it receives a portion of
10) Do you support health insurance coverage of abortion services for its funding from the state government?
federal employees? 11) Do you support a physicians ability to perform Dilation and
11) Do you support a non-profit organization’s ability to advocate on Extraction, a rare late-term abortion procedure used to protect
behalf of the clients they serve, even if it receives a portion of its the woman’s life or health or when the fetus is severely
funding from the federal government? deformed, without legislative interference?

12) Do you support medical schools being able to teach abortion
procedures (with conscience clauses) without compromising their
federal funding?

13) Do you support a physicians ability to perform Dilation and
Extraction, a rare late-term abortion procedure used to protect the
woman’s life or health or when the fetus is severely deformed,
without Congressional interference?
