Or cleri=

2uotas
egal
MmGgravuon

¢

Assemblyman Steve Kuykendall

Businessman/Legislator
REPUBLICAN

Served as local City Councilman and Mayor
before election to State Assembly
two years ago. Fiscal conservative.

ta oe

iO KNOW tne Uirrerence

Gerrie Schipske

Attorney
DEMOCRAT

Liberal member of community college
board. Liberal record on taxes,
crime and illegal immigration.

Returned over $39,000 of his legislative office

budget to state treasury.
Source: Official Legislative Spending Reports

Co-authored legislation requiring the governor
and legislators to forfeit their pay every day the

state budget is late.
Source: Assembly Constitutional Amendment 32

Supported a $3 million reduction in the State
Assembly’s operating budget.
Source: Los Angeles Times 2-26-96

Oversaw the first clean fiscal audit of the State

Assembly in 10 years.
Source: Official Assembly Records

Supports “3 Strikes” law as approved by

voters—tough.
Source: Assembly Voting Records; Public Statements

Voted to extend the death penalty for murder
during a cariacking or drive-by shooting.
Source: Senate Bill 32

Authored the "Tyler Jaeger Act of 1997,”

increasing the penalty for fatal child abuse.
Source: Assembly Bill 2258

Supported the “Drug Free Schools Act” and
tougher penalties for having a gun on or near

school grounds.
Source: Assembly Bills 289; 624

Supports Proposition 209 to end special
preference quotas. Believes quotas are unfair.
Believes all citizens should have equal access

to jobs and college.
Source: Public Statements

Supported Proposition 187 to stop illegal aliens
from collecting welfare and other taxpayer-
funded benefits.

Source: Public Statements

Endorsed by Harold Ezell, author of
Proposition 187.
Source: Public Statements

Voted to use National Guard to strengthen
California borders.
Source: Assembly Bill 357

Supported legislation to weaken Proposition 13
and make it easier to raise property taxes.

Source: Long Beach City College Board of Trustee meeting 8-8-95,
Senate Constitutional Amendment 14

Supports an increase in the state sales tax.
Source: NPAT Questionnaire

Supported legislation to extend a half-cent

emergency sales tax indefinitely.
Source: Long Beach City College Board of Trustee meeting 2-23-93,
Senate Bill 48/1993

Supported by liberal San Francisco politicians
who want to weaken California's tough new
“3 Strikes” law.

Source; Campaign Spending Reports

Opposes Proposition 209. Supported giving
special preference to city commission
appointees based on race, sex and sexual

orientation.
Source: Public Statements; Long Beach Press Telegram 8-8-90

Opposed Proposition 187. Called its approval
“unfortunate” shortly after voters approved it

by a wide margin.
Source: Long Beach City College Board of Trustees Meeting 11-9-94

Kuykendall

State Assembly

