CLINTO
GORE 9

President Clinton
Preserving Our Environment

"We must ask more of ourselves, we must expect more of each other, and we must face our
challenges together ... Our challenge is to leave our environment safe and clean for the next
generation ... People do have a right to know that their air and their water are safe."

President Bill Clinton

Because of the progress we made during the last generation, we now have cleaner, safer air and water.
We must continue to move forward. A third of us still breathe air that endangers our health. In too
many communities, the water is not safe to drink. Under this Administration, Americans are learning
about environmental safety so they can take action to keep communities healthy and clean. They are
making common sense reforms to environmental programs while blocking attempts to roll back
safeguards for our families’ food, water, and air by:

* Issuing a "Pollution Disclosure" Executive Order requiring industries to disclose information about
toxic releases to their neighbors and nearly doubling the number of chemicals that industries must

report;

e Issuing new standards to cut toxic pollution from chemical plants by 90 percent and dangerous
incinerator emissions by 98 percent;

¢ Signing legislation to strengthen safeguards for pesticides in food, with special protections for
children;

¢ Signing legislation to strengthen the Safe Drinking Water Act,

* Vowing to veto the lobbyist-written bill to roll back the Clean Water Act, which keeps billions of
pounds of toxic pollutants and sewage out of our rivers, lakes, and streams;

¢ Launching his Brownfields initiative to retum land to productive use by providing a $2 billion tax
incentive to clean up old industrial waste sites;

* Issuing new policy to protect consumers from £. coli contamination in meat;
¢ Committing $1.5 billion over seven years to help restore the unique Florida Everglades;

* Changing EPA rules to reduce paperwork requirements for businesses by 15 million hours and
allowing businesses to write their own rules if they can do it cleaner and cheaper;

P.O. Box 19100 * WASHINGTON, D.C. 20036-9100 ¢ voice: 202-331-1996 ¢ TTY: 202-530-2170 « FAX: 202-496 - 4849

PAID FOR BY THE CLINTON/ GORE '96 GENERAL COMMITTEE, INC.

® Pu
