INTRODUCING THE
NATURAL LAW PARTY

America’s Fastest Growing New Party

The Natural Law Party is the fastest growing political party in America—on target to make
modern political history as the first third party ever to run 700 candidates on the ballot
nationwide. The Natural Law Party has already fulfilled ballot access requirements in 48
states, with millions of citizens across the country signing petitions in their states to put
Natural Law Party candidates on the ballot for federal, state, and local offices.

Programs that Work

The Natural Law Party stands for prevention-oriented government, conflict-free politics,

and proven solutions designed to bring national life into harmony with natural law, such as

* Cutting taxes deeply and responsibly while simultaneously balancing the budget
through cost-effective solutions to America’s problems, rather than by eliminating
essential services

* Natural health care programs to prevent disease, promote health, and cut health care
costs by 50%

* Proven educational initiatives and curriculum innovations that develop the inner creative
genius of the student and boost educational outcomes

* Effective, field-tested crime prevention and rehabilitation programs that significantly
reduce crime and recidivism

* Sustainable agriculture practices to increase crop yields and boost profitability without
hazardous chemical fertilizers and pesticides

¢ Renewable energy production and energy conservation to reduce pollution and create
national energy self-sufficiency

* Reducing government waste and special-interest control of politics

Proven Track Record

¢ The Natural Law Party was founded in April 1992 to “bring the light of science into
politics.” The Party quickly qualified for the ballot in 32 states, fielded 128 candidates,
and became the only party in history (after the Republicans and Democrats) to be
granted “national party” status by the Federal Election Commission and to have its
presidential candidate, Dr. John Hagelin, qualify for federal matching funds.

* Following the election, Dr. Hagelin and his Tunning mate, Dr. Mike Tompkins, spent
two years working on Capitol Hill to introduce language into health care legislation that
would support funding for proven prevention-oriented health care programs—language
that received strong support from the leadership of both Republicans and Democrats.

° By the 1994 elections, the Natural Law Party’s message was gaining widespread
support. The Party’s candidates captured, on average, many times more votes than in
1992—up to 20% in some races.

* Ina national urban primary hosted by CityVote on November 7, 1995, Dr. Hagelin
defeated Republican front-runners Bob Dole, Pat Buchanan, and Ross Perot in Fayette,
Missouri, and only narrowly lost to Bob Dole in Burlington, Vermont.
