Analysis by the Legislative Analyst

PROPOSAL

This measure would limit the ability of certain people
to sue to recover losses suffered in accidents.

Limits on Uninsured Motorists and Drunk Drivers

Under existing law, someone who has suffered an
injury in a car accident may sue the person, business, or
government at fault for the injury in order to recover
related losses. These losses can include both economic
losses (such as lost wages, medical expenses, and
property damage) and noneconomic losses (such as pain
and suffering).

This measure would prohibit the recovery of
noneconomic losses in certain car accidents. Specifically,
an uninsured driver or a driver subsequently convicted of
driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs (“drunk
drivers”) at the time of an accident could not sue someone
at fault for the accident for noneconomic losses. (These
drivers could still sue for economic losses.) If, however, an
uninsured motorist is injured by a drunk driver in an
accident, the uninsured motorist could'still sue to recover
noneconomic losses from the drunk driver.

Limits on Convicted Felons

Currently, in certain cases a person who is injured
while breaking the law may sue on the basis of another
person’s negligence to recover any losses resulting from
the injury. For example, a person convicted of a robbery
who was injured because he or she slipped and fell while
fleeing the scene of the crime can sue to recover losses
resulting from the injury.

This measure prohibits a person convicted of a felony
from suing to recover any losses suffered while
committing the crime or fleeing from the crime scene if
these losses resulted from another person’s negligence.
Convicted felons, however, would still be able to sue to
recover losses for some injuries suffered while
committing or fleeing a crime—for instance those
resulting from the use of “excessive force” during an
arrest.

FISCAL EFFECT

Restricting the ability of people to sue for injury losses
in the above situations would reduce the number of
lawsuits handled by the courts. This would reduce
annual court-related costs to state and local governments
by an unknown but probably minor amount. These
restrictions would also result in fewer lawsuits filed
against state and local governments. Thus, there would
be an unknown savings to state and local governments as
a result of avoiding these lawsuits.

In addition, the restrictions placed on uninsured
motorists and drunk drivers could result in somewhat
lower costs, or “premiums,” for auto insurance. Under
current law, insurance companies doing business in
California pay a tax of 2.35 percent of “gross premiums.”
This tax is called the gross premiums tax and its
revenues are deposited in the state’s General Fund. Any
reduction in insurance premiums would also reduce gross
premiums tax revenue to the state. We estimate that any
revenue loss would probably be less than $5 million
annually.

For text of Proposition 213 see page 102

G96

49
