SECTION 7: EFFECTIVE DATE

The effective date of this Measure shall
be the day after the elcction at which it is

approved by the voters.
SECTION 8: CONSTRUCTION OF
MEASURE

The Measure shall be liberally
construed to achieve the purposes of this
Measure and to preserve its validity.

SECTION 9: SEVERABILITY

If any provision of this Measure, or
the application to any person or circumstances
is held invalid or void, such invalidity or
voidness shall not affect other provisions or
applications which can be given effect without
the invalid or void provision or application,
and to this end, all of the provisions of this
Measure are declared to be severable.

SECTION 10: ELECTORS’ INTENTION
IN THE EVENT OF PASSAGE OF
POSSIBLE CONFLICTING MEASURES

In the event another Measure to be
voted on by the voters at the same election as
this Measure, and which constitutes a
comprehensive regulatory scheme, receives
more affirmative votes than this Measure, the
electors intend that any provision or

_ provisions of this Measure not in direct and
apparent conflict with any provision or
provisions of another Measure, shall not be
deemed to be in conflict therewith, and shall be
severed from any other provision or
provisions of this Measure which are in direct
and apparent conflict with the provision(s) of
another Measure. In such event, the
provisions shall be severed according to the
provisions of Section 9 of this Measure upon
application to any court of competent
jurisdiction.

i.e. March 27, 1996

This means that the terms should be given
flexibility. Unfortunately, given that the primary
“purposes” are the abolition of rent control, this
flexibility would probably work against both
residents and local governments.

If any provision is unlawful, it shall be dropped,
but the remaining provisions will not be affected.
Thus, residents cannot count upon a future
illegality to do away with all of this. The single
best strategy is to defeat the Initiative at the polls.

This provision addresses the possibility that a
“poison pill,” or conflicting initiative could be
qualified and passed. If that were to happen, then
the two would be modified so as to create as
much harmony as possible. So far, no competing
measure has been qualified.

PAGE A-16
