California Republican Party

1903 West Magnolia Blvd. * Burbank, California 91506 ¢ (818) 841-5210

John S. Herrington

Chairman
My Fellow Republicans:

In November of this year, voters from all over America will
go to the polls to decide who will lead this nation into the
21st Century. They will be asked to make a choice between
the failed big-government policies of Bill Clinton versus

the proven and fiscally responsible agenda of the
Republican Revolution.

I need you to help me fight against Bill Clinton and the

liberal Democrats in Washington who are attempting to stall -

our Republican Revolution. I need you to help me wage war
against liberals in Sacramento who are trying to thwart our
GOP agenda in California. I need you to join with me and
the California Republican Party to fight for the future of our
State and our Nation. ‘

Take this time now to fill out the attached membership form
and join California’s Republican Revolution today.

Sincerely,

>. {

John Herrington
Chairman

LJ Yes , the California Republican Party can count on me to do my

part to help defeat Bill Clinton. I want to stand up with State Party

Chairman John Herrington and fight to:

v End special hiring quotas and preferences

V Reform welfare

V Lower taxes for all Americans

V Pass a crime bill that punishes criminals, not victims

Annual $25.00 Membership Fee

Acct. #

Lj Mastercard, Visa, AMEX or Discover

J Check enclosed

Exp. Date

Name

Address
City,

Zip

)

Evening Phone (

)

Day Phone (
Signature:

Contributions to the California Republican Party are not tax deductible for federal or California tax purposes. Federal and California Law require political committees to report
the name, mailing address, occupation and employer for each individual whose contributions aggregate $100 or more per calendar year. Corporate contributions will be used

in California state elections. These contributions may be made in any amount. Personal contributions will be used in both federal and California state elections, and may also

be made in any amount. The first $5,000 received per individual per calendar year (husbands and wives counted separately) will be used for federal elections.

Shawn Steel, Treasurer

Paid for by the California Republican Party
1903 West Magnolia Bivd., * Burbank, CA 91506 * Committee ID #810163
