utting Amer

Limits

needs a constitutional amendment limiting
sional terms to six years for members of the
welve years for U.S. Senators. Also, Congress
mpose term limits on all federal judges.

must become again a country of citizen
rs—not career politicians.

Up Our Politics

onal politics have been corrupted by Big
Corporate contributions to political parties will
wed, PAC contributions ended, and Senators
gressmen will have to raise every dime of their
n war

) their own
1 district.
dollar
sional

s will be
d.

ce
udget

i needs a
d Budget
nent—
trict limit
mount of ‘
vernment @ ao

pose. The

nt must have a line-item veto. Our $5 trillion
1 national disgrace; a threat to the survival of
yublic. It must and shall come down.

im America’s Lost Sovereignty

roes of Lexington and Concord gave their lives
iberty. Now, politicians are selling out U.S.
sty to a global “New World Order.” The U.S.
laim her lost sovereignty, and never again will
in soldiers be subject to UN command.

© The Miami Herald/Peter Andrew Bosch

End Foreign Aid

The looting of America for the benefit of foreign
regimes ends the day I take office. If we cannot
balance our own budget, what are we doing sending
billions of tax dollars overseas to balance the budgets
of foreign governments? Let’s end foreign aid and
start looking out for the Forgotten Americans right
here in the United States.

Defend Our Borders

We need a sea wall to stop the tidal wave of illegal
immigration and narcotics sweeping over our
southern border. We need a “time out” on legal
immigration—to assimilate and Americanize the
millions who have come in recent decades. And
we need one language for one people—our own
English language.

Peace Through Strength

U.S. armed forces must remain first on land, on the
seas, in the air, and in space. We will maintain U.S.
supremacy over all enemies, build a missile defense
for our country, and use force if necessary to protect
vital interests. Allies, defended by America during

50 years of Cold War, will begin paying their fair share

for defense.

A Pro-Family, Pro-Growth Tax System
We will abolish a tax system that is robbing families
of their wages, and America of her vitality. We will
shift to a low flat tax, radically down-size the IRS,
slash capital gains taxes, and abolish inheritance taxes
on family estates, family businesses and family farms.

Equal Justice Under Law

Discrimination is wrong. But you do not correct old
injustices by committing new ones. We will end
preferential treatment—quotas, set-asides, affirma-
tive action, “diversity” mandates—in federal policy
our first week in office. America must become a
nation of equal justice for all—and special privilege
for none.

Defend The Right To Life

God is the author of life. If Government has any valid
duty, it is to protect innocent life. Full legal protec-
tion for the right to life of the unborn, the ill and the
elderly must and shall be reestablished. We will keep
the Republican Party pro-life, reconstitute the
Supreme Court, and make the White House a “Bully
Pulpit” for life.

Good Jobs At Good Wages

The real wages of American workers are falling.
Factories and jobs have fled overseas. We will reverse
this, and impose stiff tariffs on protectionist nations
that deny us equal access to their markets. No more
NAFTAs, no more GATTS, no more sellouts of
American workers on the altars of multinational
corporations.

icans First— Pat Buchanan on the Issues

Free Education From Federal Control
Since federal judges and bureaucrats seized our
schools, God and the Ten Commandments have
been expelled, test scores have fallen, and chaos
has entered. We will shut down the Department of
Education, end Goals 2000, and return money and
power to local schools where parental rights will be
made paramount again.

Restore Our National Heritage

We will provide constitutional protection for the flag,
and restore freedom of religion to public schools. Our
glorious, if often tragic, history is as great a national
treasure as our Capitol, or the forests of Yellowstone.
Our national memory must be preserved; so, too,
shall all monuments, battlefields and symbols of our
heritage.

(© 1995 Alex Quesada Matrix

Buchanan /or President

I SZPC92Y iP

L) Yes! I support Pat Buchanan
for President. We need new
leadership to put America first.

Name

Address

City

County

State/ZIP

‘Telephone (home)

(work)

C) I want to contribute.
Here’s my check for $

made payable to Pat Buchanan for President.

The Federal Election Commission requires that we
request the following:

Occupation

Employer

Federal law requires political committees to report name
mailing address, occupation and name of employer for
each individual whose contributions aggregate in excess
of $200 in a calendar year. Contributions are not deducti
for federal income tax purposes.

Paid for by Buchanan for President
Scott B. Mackenzie, Treasurer

Buchanan for President

6862 Elm Street, Suite 210
McLean, Virginia 22101
703-848-1996
1-800-GO PAT GO
Internet http://www.buchanan.org
