The measure also created the Habitat Conservation Fund (HCF), which
oversees the expenditure of $30 million a year for 30 years for various wildlife habitat
acquisition projects, although it did not create a revenue stream to fund these
projects. The Proposition specified that any changes made by the Legislature to this
measure would need a four-fifths vote.

Since that time, the mountain lion population is believed to have grown
dramatically (although no Fish and Game studies have been performed to verify this
and currently the Department estimates 4,000 to 6,000 adult mountain lion in
California based on the 1989 study, Oregon Fish and Game officials believe the lions
population growth reate to be between 10-13% per year). With this growthin |
population, the attacks on livestock, domestic animals and humans have also
increased. Nearly half of the depredation permits (which are issued only after
verified attacks) issued in the last 23 years have been issued since 1990. In
1994 alone, the Department issued 328 depredation permits, which is almost
three times the total number of lions that were killed between 1970 and 1972
during hunting seasons. Further, two-thirds of this century’s serious incidents
(deaths, maulings, etc.) have occurred since 1990.

In February of 1994, Senator Tim Leslie introduced Senate Bill 2013 to require
that the Department of Fish and Game manage the mountain lion population.
Although his bill was defeated in June of that year in a committee hearing, he
reintroduced a revised version of the bill the next year as SB 28, which was approved
by the Legislature and signed by Governor Pete Wilson.

Senator Leslie’s bill, which will be on the March 1996 ballot as Proposition 197,
will allow the Department of Fish and Game to manage the mountain lion population
in the same manner they do all other species that are not rare, threatened or
endangered. The bill does not specify preferences or restrictions for management
tools, but merely seeks to give the state’s wildlife experts the ability to use any tools
they deem appropriate. The measure will make small appropriations from the HCF
(0.3 percent of the fund’s total expenditures) to fund and implement the mountain
lion management plan required by the bill. The measure would also lower the
legislative vote requirement for making changes to mountain lion management
policies from four-fifths to a simple majority.

#848. .
