HMO Casualty of the Day

September 27, 1996

HMO Refuses to Pay for Life Saving Surgery
7 OS

SaaS

Betty Woolfson, Grandmother, Stockton, CA

HMO enrollees who get an outside doctor's opinion had better have deep pockets to pay for
medical help they need. So far, a dispute between outside doctors and my mother’s HMO has
cost our family more than $15,000 in legal fees. My mother is in critical need of life-saving
surgery that has already been postponed three times because her HMO refuses to pay for it.

The dispute between my mother and her HMO arose when the HMO’s doctors recommended a
course of treatment that world-renowned neurosurgeons at UCLA Medical Center believe will
endanger her life. We wanted a second opinion because my mom has an artery in her brain the
diameter of a golf ball that is calcified and brittle and full of blood clots. It has caused her to go
blind in one eye. At any time she could completely lose her sight, suffer a massive stroke, or
die. f

The estimated cost for the surgery and treatment UCLA doctors recommend is $150,000.
Advance payment is required. UCLA doctors believe my mother's condition is serious and that
surgery must be performed as soon possible.

Initially, my mom's HMO stated “There is no appeal process.” Finally, someone explained
there was no “complaint department” only a “customer satisfaction” department.

Unable to reach an agreement with the HMO, we had to take our case to Federal Court where my
mother, a middle aged, lower income woman with no connections was given the responsibility
to convince top specialists on her condition to take a day off from brain surgery to fly 500
miles to testify on her behalf. She was unable to persuade the experts to come to court. The
HMO suggested we enter into the arbitration process which by law, insists that each side pay
their costs when an HMO is involved, regardless of who wins.

By the sheer fact that HMOs have endless financial resources, this makes it a cinch for HMOs to
prevail. When this process bankrupts the patient, forcing them out of their HMO, it is often
taxpayers that end up picking up the tab, saving the HMO from having to shell out for expensive
medical procedures.

Sadly, our story is not unique. If Prop. 216 were on the books now, families like ours would
not have to suffer financial and emotional ruin to get adequate medical help for our loved ones.
I hope our mother gets the surgery she needs before its too late. Californians need protection,
Californians need Prop. 216.

25.3295

For More Information contact Chuck Idelson 415-437-3325 or Jamie Court 310-392-0522
