Sample letter for state federation presidents to send to educational employees.

Dear (name of state federation) member:

During his acceptance speech at the Republican National Convention, Bob Dole made
a point of portraying his campaign as a “big tent” in which all people were invited -- all people,
that is, except the men and women who work in our public schools. Rather then welcome school
employees, Dole went out of his way to put them on notice that they would be in for a tough time if
he wins this election.

Why teachers? Because according to Bob Dole, the only problem with public education
is school employees and the organizations that represent them. Dole claims that his remarks were
aimed at teachers’ unions and not directly at school employees, but don't be fooled. Bob Dole is
trying to gain votes by blaming school employees. Dole and many other Republican candidates
hope to turn teachers into the "common enemy" around which to rally support.

During his speech, Dole tried to portray school employees as greedy for their attempts to
secure reasonable salaries and benefits. He tried to blame school employees for all failures in
public education, despite his own dismal record of voting against education funding. And he
outlined his plan to abandon public education through a voucher program that transfers public tax
dollars to private schools.

"If [education] were a business, you would be driving it into bankruptcy."
Bob Dole's address to the Republican National Convention, August 15, 1996

Bob Dole remembers fondly when he went to school in the 1930s and ‘40s. He wants to take
us back to the days when there were no school employee unions -- when wages were so small that
many teachers and other school employees lived in poverty, few had any medical insurance and
retirement benefits were almost unheard of. Dole may consider these the "good old days," but you
and I know better.

"If [education] were a patient, it would be dying."
Bob Dole's address to the Republican National Convention, August 15, 1996

If this is true, then Bob Dole is Dr. Kevorkian. Throughout his 35 years in Washington, Dole
has consistently fought federal investment in public education. Last year, Dole and Gingrich
sent a budget to President Clinton that cut education funding by 30%, including a 55% cut in the
Safe and Drug-Free Schools program. During these years, Dole voted against creating the federal
student loan program, against establishing Head Start, and against the Elementary and Secondary
School Act. He has voted repeatedly against expanding these programs to cover more at-risk
children.
What is Bob Dole's solution to the problems in public schools? "Opportunity scholarships."
"Opportunity scholarships" is the far-right's new term for an old idea: vouchers. But, by
any name, they still amount to the same thing -- using public tax funds to subsidize private and
religious schools.

@ Dole's plan would create a huge new entitlement program costing taxpayers and public schools
more than $2.5 billion with no guarantee to improve student achievement.

@ Dole's plan would not require participating private and religious schools to meet any set of
academic standards in exchange for their federal subsidy. This would open the door to massive
fraud and abuse of taxpayer money.

(continued)
