(1) The tenant fails to pay
the monthly rent in accordance with the rental
agreement (as reduced by the rental assistance
subsidy) within five days of its due date;

(2) The tenant no longer
meets the criteria for a qualified tenant for any
reason.

(b) The mobilehome _ park
management may, upon 10 days’ written
notice to the tenant, terminate the tenant’s
rental assistance subsidy for a reason specified
in paragraphs (1) or (2) of subdivision (a).

(c) A tenant whose rental
assistance subsidy has been terminated
pursuant to subdivision (b) may not reapply
for rental assistance subsidy for a period of 12
months thereafter.

(d) For purposes .of the ten-
percent limitation set forth in section 798.44.4,
a rental assistance subsidy terminated
pursuant to subdivision (b) shall be deemed to
have been terminated on the last day of the
calendar year.

798.44.6 Any qualified tenant aggrieved
or damaged by any substantial violation of
this Article may petition the municipal court of
the judicial district in which the mobilehome
park is located for a judicial determination of
his or her rights under this Article. An
aggrieved tenant prevailing in such an action
shall be entitled to (a) actual damages
consisting of the amount of rental assistance
subsidy lost due to the violation and (b)
reasonable attorneys fees and costs. A tenant
aggrieved by a violation of this Article shall
also be entitled to seek injunctive relief, and
any other equitable remedies available under
section 526 of the Code of Civil Procedure.

A judgment of the municipal court
shall be reviewable by the appellate
department of the superior court of the county
in which the action arose.

Thus, a resident who may be amongst the most
needy is denied any assistance for 12 months

This means that if a subsidy is lost in the middle
of a calendar year, management will not need to
immediately offer it to someone else It sill
simply be lost to everyone for the rest of the . car

Note: There will be no government enforcement
of subsidy rights. The very poor persons «ho
really need the subsidy must hire a lawyer and 0
to court. If the resident loses, he or she must >av
the park owner’s attorney’s fees.

An injunction would order the park owner 'o
provide the subsidy. It sounds good, but .111 be
expensive to obtain, since more than one ...urt
hearing shall be required.

PAGE A-12
