Similar to PPA, but exempts businesses
with less than 100 employees from
reporting. Requires disclosure of
revenue and overhead costs.

Requires facilities with more than 25
employees to disclose all data and
studies used to determine quality,
staffing and service levels. Facilities
with 150+ employees disclose financial
reports of all affiliated entities,
complaint and dispute data.

Public disclosure of financial,
complaint and quality data by health
insurance companies, HMOs.

Establishes independent, non-profit Does not address.
ublic watchdog, bees 4 ded

Ss consumers, to represent their

interests in health care matters.

Citizen oversight and advoca yu
to watchdog inplomentatian, © —
enforcement.

Does not address. Would allow
HMO/insurance industry to force
patients to waive civil enforcement of
protections and rights conferred by the
initiative in order to receive health care
coverage

The Patient Protection Act prohibits
HMOs and managed care plans from
forcing uninformed patients into secret,
mandatory, binding arbitration process
asa — of — —
Requi wing voluntary

es court protection and

ac rami of arbitration system for
resolving disputes.

Resolution of disputes between
patients and HMO over providing
needed treatment.

Imposes “greed fees” on mergers and
acqui: iow (1% of assets), bed closings
(1% of revenue), monopolization (3% of
revenue), executive stock compensation
over $2M (2.5%), facility conversion
from non-profit to for-profit (10% assets)
for 150+ health businesses. Proceeds
= local trauma care, —- :
isease, prevention programs, loss of job
health hasafite. 2 ,

Hospital downsizing and other

corporate health care restructurings for

oo that reduce quality and access to
ealth care.

Taxpayers, businesses and consumers

None. Health care businesses pay ‘axp
pay costs of implementation,
par aay é

. fees” to cover costs of
implementation.

11 Cost to taxpayers.

Does not address. Allows cost of
implementation, enforcement to be

assed through to consumers through
gher premiums.

Bars HMOs, insurers from raising rates
without justification and disclosure of
revenues and expenses.

Restriction on premium increases.

Funds these critical health programs Does not address.
from “greed fees” after ferplerediation a

costs are fully paid.

Contagious disease prevention,
emergency room accident/trauma care,
coverage for senior/laid off workers

Similar to PPA, except that consumers
can be forced to waive enforcement
Dower (see #9).

Consumers have standing to enforce
reforms in regulatory proceedings and
courts.

Private enforcement.

Permits state legislature to change
initiative “in ways” that further its
purposes by a simple majority vote,
which need not be by roll call.

Restricts amendments to those which
“further the purposes” of the measure

and are approved by roll call vote of
saath of members each house.

Hes 7 by Consumers and Nurses for Patient Protection, Yes on Prop. 216. Contact: 310-392-0522. Email: network@primenet.com.

Restrictions on amendments to the
initiative by the Legislature to prevent
efforts to undermine initiative once it
passes.

