THE COST OF INACTION

Quality of Life, Environmental Degradation, Lost Jobs & Opportunities

Without successful passage of PROPOSITION 204, California stands to lose a
great deal. The recent 1987 - 1992 drought demonstrated the water supply
vulnerability of the state, resulting in mandatory conservation and rationing for
industrial and residential users, a drastic cutback in surface water supplies for the
state's farmers and considerable strain to key environmental habitats. The
impacts resulting from this most recent drought provide important insight as to
the costs of sustained future water supply shortages, including:

¢ Degraded Drinking Water Supply: The ability to provide safe and reliable
drinking water to California's residents will be compromised without
investment in needed infrastructure improvements.

¢@ Lost Jobs: Chronic water supply shortages may lead to the permanent loss of
tens or even hundreds of thousands of existing and potential jobs in the
state’s agricultural, industrial and nursery and landscaping sectors.

¢@ Lost Revenue: Decreased industrial and agricultural production will
significantly reduce already strained state and local tax revenues.

¢ Lost Investment: Sustained water supply shortages will destroy billions of
dollars worth of homeowner investment in landscape, agricultural investment
in permanent crops and industrial investment in plant equipment.

¢ Degraded Natural Habitats: The ability to provide sufficient water supplies to
preserve critical fisheries, wetlands and other natural habitats will be
compromised, particularly during drought years.

¢ Lost Recreational Opportunities: Sustained water shortages will provide for
fewer recreational opportunities on the state's rivers, lakes, waterways and
reservoirs.

¢ Degraded Urban Environment: The green urban ecosystem (lawns, gardens,
parks, etc.) which are home to wildlife, filter smog, cool our neighborhoods
and provide safe play areas will be jeopardized in many communities across
the state.

California's water problems are complex and any comprehensive solution will’
necessarily be complex as well. Proposition 204 is an important major step
toward solving some of the state’s most pressing water problems. It is critical
that we avoid these devastating impacts, VOTE YES ON PROPOSITION 204!
