ithe ‘irst pronues of a Dole Administration will be to secure Congressional
passage ancrat:ication of the Balanced Budge: Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. Only the
moral authonty of the Constitution can force Washington to do what every American family
stust do: live within its means. Most states are required to balance their books. Bob Dole
believes the tederal government should be required to do so as weil,

Only one man stands between the Balanced Budget Amendment and the American
people~Bill Clinton. He has fought every effort to pass the Balanced Budget Amendment.
Since Bill Clinton first :ook office, the Amendment has come up fora Congressional vote three
times. Each time, he has led an all-out effort to defeat the Amendment. Six memters of the
President’s own party, who had previously supported the Balanced Budget Amendment,
switched thetr votes...thanks to Bill Clinton's efforts,

d___ BALANCING THE BUDGET BY THE YEAR 2002
Balancing the federal budget is essential to increasing economic growth. In 1995, the
federal government paid over $230 billion in interest on the national deot, or over 15% of all

federal spending. Nearly 40 cents of every dollar the federal government collects in income

taxes goes to pay interest on the national debt. (Suse ‘The Economie av Budget Cudoete: Fiscal Years 1997-1206,
Congresnonas Budget Orica, May 1996).

The federal deficit drives up interest rates and hits families. [tis a "steaith tax” that every
family with a home, every father and mother with a child in college, every young person who
buys a car. must pay, Balancing the federal budget would cur interest rates by nearly 2%, and,
save the typical family:

© more than $36.000 on an average home mortgage:
* more than $1.400 on an ordinary student lean:
* nearly $700 on a typical car loan. isveres: ein Sunes Commiiees

We simply cannot continue to mortgage America’s furure. [f we continue current tax and

spending policies. furure generations will be saddled with an effective tax rate of over 80%.
(Suures: The Sconemis and Budget Cuvovc Fisest Years (997-1006. Congrasions! Bupa Offer, May 1996),

Bob Dole’s economic program will balance the budget by the vear 2002. The following
table illustrates how we will achieve this goal:
