sCSopies “ne ACCIN ‘Nat paloy FSM. ws he sest we con
a new era ot Sirmuniseed Sxpeccations--an era wren

sven maten ine sregress of the ast. much ‘ess compete with the most

The central thesis of the Dole growth agenda is that America can do better. The
story of America bas been written by those who bave set 30d achieved ambitious goals, not
those who impose artificial limits on accomplishment.

The truth is, anemic rates of growth and stdgnant wages are Only inevitable if we continue
to follow Bill Clinton's economic prescription of higher taxes. a refusal to balance the budger.
and the over-regulation of the economy. The total tax burden is the highest in U.S. history.
Federal, state, and local taxes consumed a record 31.3% of GDP lase year. At the end of World
War 1, taxes consumed only 25% of GDP. The federal tax burden alone rose from 19.2% of
GDP in 1992 to 20.5% today. (source: Neuonel Censor ‘br Polley Anatysis) The average middle-income
family spends more of its budget to pay taxes than it does on food, clothing, and shelcer
Combined. (Source: Join Cconsmie Commie)

By any historical measure of economic growth. America’s economy is lagging.
Economic growth under Bill Clinton has averaged 2.4% per year. That’s slower than when he
was elected in 1992 (3.7%), slower than the entire decade of the 1980s (3.2%); slower than the
last five expansions (4.4%); and slower than what we've averaged over our entire post-World
War LU history (3.5%). (Sourwe: Joint Economie Comminen)

Productivity growth—the source of rising incomes—has been cut in half during the Clinton
Presidency, failing from 1.2% per year from 1980 to 1992 to only 0.6% from 1993 to 1995.
‘Swerve: (996 Szonemie Report of the President and the U.S. Coperenent of Lasers, The hard reality of slow productivity
growth is stagnant wages and incomes that are squeezing working Americans. The average real
pay~wages. salaries. and fringe benefics--of working Americans has stagnated under Bill
Clinton. This is the first period of expansion in U.S. history when workers" pay has not riser,

SUMMARY

One of the central goals of Bob Dole's Presidency will be to stimulate greater economic
growth. The goal is not just to restore America to its pre-Clinton rates of economic growth. but
tO achieve an even more ambitious growth path of 3.5% or higher. with prics stability.

In sum, the six key points of Bob Dole’s Pro-Growth Plan for America's Families are:

Ie A Balanced Budget Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. to ensure that the
budget stays balanced after 2002 and throughout the next century

ry

