Bob Dole Has Been A Congressional Leader in
Protecting the Environment

Eighty-six years ago, another Republican environmentalist,
President Teddy Roosevelt, said, “of all the questions which
can come before this nation, short of the actual preservation of
its existence in a great war, there is none which compares in
importance with the central task of leaving this land even a
better place for our descendants than it is for us.”

Bob Dole has always understood the key role that the federal
government plays in protecting the environment. Bob Dole is
the only Presidential candidate ever to have voted for and help
pass every major piece of environmental protection legislation
in the past 25 years. He:

* Co-sponsored the Safe Drinking Water Act, which ensures
healthy drinking water for all Americans.

+ Played a key role in passing the Clean Water Act, the
Endangered Species Act, and the National Environmental Policy
Act.

+ Led the Clean Air Act to passage, a law that fundamentally
reformed the previous law and is recognized as one of the most
sweeping environmental laws ever enacted.

+ Played a significant role in amending the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act in 1971 to help eliminate the discharge of
pollutants into navigable waters and to ensure the integrity of
the nation’s water supply by uniting federal and state efforts.

+ Introduced the Private Property Rights Act to ensure that the
government justly compensates property owners for the
“takings” of private property for public use.

+ Has long supported funding to preserve our natural resources

including the Presidio, the Florida Everglades and America’s
National Parks.

Autnorized end pacd for by Duie. Kemp "96, Rovere Lightsizer, ivcasurer

* Served as a key architect of the 1996 Farm Bill which contains
one of the most significant conservation provisions ever
enacted. This provision, introduced by Dole, maintains the
Conservation Reserve Program, curbs water pollution through
the Environmental Quality Incentive Program and provides the
restoration of wetlands by increasing the Wetlands Reserve
Program. At Senator Dole’s insistence, the bill also provides
$300 million for the restoration of the Florida Everglades.

Bob Dole Will Continue to Protect and Strengthen
Our Natural Environment

As President, Bob Dole will:

* Support policies that keep our environment safe and clean,
protect the property rights of all Americans, and give states
and local communities the flexibility they need to effectively
meet real environmental challenges.

+ Continue to support the development of non-polluting electric
vehicles and cleaner alternative fuels as he has done since the
1970s.

+ Continue to support reforms of the Superfund Program so
that the program focuses on the cleanup of hazardous waste
sites — not on endless, expensive and ineffective litigation.

A Better America

As President, Bob Dole will continue to fight for a cleaner, safer
environment. He will work to ensure that our water remains
safe to drink, our air clean to breath, and our land protected
against pollution and degradation.

810 Hire Street, Nortneast * Suite 360 » Washingron, DC 20002 * (202) 414-6400 * hitp:l!wwiadolehemp96.arg
