The other parties, have a fortune to spend from now on. They have almost a hundred
million dollars under the federal election laws. We only get $29 million. I’ve got to go to
the people in this country and ask for their support. I particularly go to the people who
own the six billion small businesses and the 80 million people who work for them and
ask them to send in small contributions. If this is worth fighting, you will have to
contribute so we can get a semi-level playing field, so we can compete from now to
November. If you want to send in a contribution, just send it to Perot ‘96, Post Office
Box 96, Dallas, Texas. You don’t even have to write that down, right?

As we work together, I ask all of you to'remember it is better to light a candle than to
curse the darkness. The shadows will fall behind you if you walk into the light. All of the
darkness in the world cannot put out the light of one little candle. Millions of good,
decent people like you must light these candles that will lead us to victory and the light in
1996. You are the wind beneath the Reform party’s wings. It will be nothing without you.
As we march forward together, we will lead the Spirit of ‘76 in *96, and in the middle of
the effort, when things get tougher and tougher, and they will, just remember this: a bell
is no bell until you ring it. Think of the Liberty Bell. And a song is no song until you sing
it. Think of the Star Spangled Banner. Love in your heart isn’t put there to stay. Think of
your children and grandchildren. Love isn’t love until you give it away. Think of the
millions of people you can help. God bless you all. Thank you very much. Privilege to be
with you. Thank you. Pleased to be with you.

My whole family, come on up now, thank you. This is my real wealth, forget the money.
Thank you.

Wait just a minute. I’ve got good news. Guess who won the preliminaries at the Olympics
this afternoon. Tony Volpentest won first place in the preliminaries in 11.66 seconds. The
current world record was 11.67. He broke the record tonight. Tomorrow he goes for the
gold. God bless you, Tony. :

Now, did I marry well over my head?

I will leave with this story. I feel exactly like the poor lady who was walking down the
street and a rich lady came up to her. The poor lady had her little children in each hand
and the rich lady said, “Madam, where are your pearls?” The poor lady looked down at
her children, drew herself up proudly, pointed to her children and said, “These are my
pearls. These are my greatest riches.” Thank you very much.

I’ve got to run to go get on Larry King. Good to be with you.
