In the past three years, Los Angeles has suffered a loss of
hundreds of thousands of defense-related jobs, the worst
racial upheaval-of the century, and a fire and earthquake
that destroyed much of our vaunted suburban paradise. In
the face of these breakdowns, the establishment has offered
little more than a happy face to cover the bankruptcy of its
outdated thinking. “Rebuild L.A.,” the proposed response
to the 1992 rioting, has faded into a press release.

Many public officials have an idea of the future that is
only a xerox of the past. Special interest politics benefits
and perpetuates status quo behavior. Mindless growth is its
own reward. In real life, this means that every day more of
California is developed in the image of the Los Angeles
model which has failed. From the Bay Area to Sacramento
to Fresno, the traffic creeps along, the air fills with smog,
and the flight from cities continues, only to have the same
urban diseases reappear all over again.

If we remain addicted to our old ways in these new times,
we will continue to spiral from disaster to disaster, becoming
the biggest penal colony on earth as the politics of law and
order replaces the quest for a better vision.

But just as no one is entitled to rest on their laurels and
remain Number One, there need be nothing inevitable about
the decline of nations or states like California.

We need a leap to a new dream for the future from the
politics of the past.

I have a dream of California that began in the formative

decade of the 60s and I hope will mature into a new consensus
in our time.

2. Politics of the Spirit - A Dream of California

My dreams have five themes that grow from the shifting of
our cultural tectonic plates that began in the 1960s:

1. That our quality of life depends on more education, not
less.

2. That the emergence of a multicultural society is a strength
for the future, not a threat to our well-being.

3. That for a sustainable future we must create jobs by
restoring the environment rather than degrading what is left
of it.

4. That the perpetuation of a Machiavellian government based
on interest groups makes human beings expendable and
denies the vision of justice upon which government should
be founded.

5. That life is not about conquering the world but about
discovering meaning in our lives, or about being “happier
and better” as Lord Bryce said in Berkeley at the beginning
of this century.

First, that we need a cultural and economic future based
on deeper and broader education of all Californians.

I view it as tragic that California is 41st in K-12 education
funding, and that 200,000 students have been forced to leave

- their college education in these past two years.

The obsolete thinking behind this downsizing is that
California won’t need the educational opportunities that
empowered us in the past. "Why have bellboys with BAs?,"
asks a national magazine.

Politics of the Spirit - A Dream of California 3
