Sample column for state federation presidents to send to newspapers for publishing on their
op-ed pages. This column focuses on quality health care and should be retyped with a short,
introductory cover letter:

If any voters are wondering how Bob Dole would govern as president, then a quick look at his
record in Congress should serve as a guide. On health care issues, this record could not be clearer.

Throughout his 35 years in Washington, D.C., Bob Dole led the fight against efforts to make
health care more accessible and more affordable. Dole was one of only 12 members of Congress to
vote against the creation of Medicare, a fact he still speaks proudly of when addressing conserv-
ative groups. In a speech to the American Conservative Union in October, 1995, Bob Dole even
bragged about his opposition to Medicare: "I was there, fighting the fight, voting against Medicare
_- one of 12 -- because we knew it wouldn't work in 1965."

If this comes as a surprise to some voters, it shouldn't. Consistency has been the hallmark of
Bob Dole's positions on health care.

@ Last year, Bob Dole led the fight in the Senate to pass a budget that paid for a $270 billion tax
cut for the wealthy by cutting Medicare and Medicaid.

@ Asan alternative to President Clinton's health care reform efforts, Dole introduced a bill in
1994 that set strict limits on spending for Medicaid. So strict, in fact, that two Republican
governors, South Carolina Governor Carroll Campbell and Wisconsin Governor Tommy
Thompson, publicly opposed the bill.

B Bob Dole and Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich held up passage of a bill providing
portability for health care coverage to workers who change jobs because they wanted to add a
provision to benefit the wealthy and well-off at the expense of those who really need coverage.

H@ Bob Dole also supported a bill last year that would have repealed the Vaccines for Children
program. This was not his only vote against childhood immunizations. On two previous occasions
he voted against funding for this important program.

® In 1994, Bob Dole voted against an amendment that would have required insurance policies to
cover preventative services for children at no extra cost, including pre-natal care for pregnant
women.

& Despite evidence showing that 3,000 children try smoking each day, Bob Dole has suggested
that cigarettes aren't addictive and opposes federal action to help prevent cigarette sales to minors:
"We know that it is not good for kids, but a lot of other things aren't good... some would say milk
is not good."

B Between 1991 and 1993, Bob Dole voted against the Family and Medical Leave Act on three
separate occasions. This bill provides employees with up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave to care for an
ill family member or following the birth or adoption of a child.

Anyone who believes that, if elected, Bob Dole will be a champion of quality health care needs
a quick lessons in history. His eloquent rhetoric on the campaign trail cannot hide his 35-year
record. When it comes to health care, Bob Dole is no friend of taxpaying working men and women.
He has actively fought any meaningful federal role in ensuring that Americans have access to
quality, affordable health care.

When Bob Dole was growing up, there was no Medicare or Medicaid. Very few workers had
employer-paid health coverage, and a major illness could easily wipe out a family’s life savings.
Childhood immunization programs did not exist, and the results were catastrophic for millions of
children. Bob Dole may remember these as the good old days, but I doubt if many other Americans
would agree.

One thing is certain, however, if Bob Dole wins in November, he will return America to these
"good old days.”

