(b) In any jurisdiction in which
there is no form of mobilehome park rent
control in effect, the management of a
mobilehome park shall be required to provide
the rental assistance subsidy provided by this
Article to qualified tenants representing not
more than ten-percent of the spaces then
occupied by mobilehomes in such mobilehome
park. The priority for granting rental
assistance subsidy shall be governed by
subdivision (c) of this section 798.44.4.

(c) (1) In circumstances in
which subdivision (a)(2) or subdivision (b) of
this section apply, the management of a
mobilehome park shall be required to grant
the rental assistance subsidy provided for in
this Article to those qualified tenants who are
first in time to have been granted a rental
assistance subsidy by the management of the
mobilehome park.

(2) In determining the
number of qualified tenants to which the
management of a mobilehome park shall be
required to provide rental assistance under
subdivision (a)(2), the management of the
mobilehome park shall determine the number
of qualified tenants which represent spaces
entitled to the rental subsidy, by subtracting

the number of spaces then subject to some .

form of mobilehome park rent control from
the number representing ten-percent of the
total number of spaces then occupied by
mobilehomes in the mobilehome park.

798.44.5 (a) Any qualified tenant
receiving a rental assistance subsidy shall lose
the right to such rental assistance subsidy
upon the occurrence of any of the following
events:

The maximum number of spaces receiving
subsidies can never exceed 10%,

This paragraph is ambiguous, but appears to say:
He who applies first gets the subsidy first. Thus,
the most “needy” residents are not always

guaranteed assistance.

Example: In a 200 space park, 15 spaces
covered by rent control.

20 (10% of spaces) - 15 (no. of rent control
spaces) = 5 (number of available subsidies)

If on one occasion a resident fails to pay rent by
the 7th day of the month or “no longer qualifies,”
presumably because of increased income, the
subsidy can be terminated on just 10 days notice.
After that, the resident is forbidden from
applying for a new subsidy for 12 months. This
will result in an immediate 10% rent increase
without the 90 day notice which is otherwise .
required by law for any rent increase.

PAGE A-11
