Victory “96 May 1996

PRESIDENT CLINTON DELIVERS ON HIS PROMISES
CLINTON ADMINISTRATION FOCUS ON THE GOLDEN STATE

President Bill Clinton has a record of leadership for California’s working families.
The President has consistently shown that he understands the challenges and
opportunities facing the people of California. He has been a leader on the issues
Californians care about -- growing the economy, creating new jobs, investing in
education, protecting the environment and making our streets and communities
safer. His policies, his achievements and his agenda are in the best interest of --
and have made a difference for -- California’s working families. The Clinton
Administration’s California accomplishments include:

A Growing Economy: Unemployment in California has dropped from 9.4% to 7.7%.

New Jobs: 535,400 jobs created in California over the last 37 months after 57,900 lost during
the previous 4 years; 8.5 million jobs created nationally.

Stronger Families: the Family and Medical Leave Act protects 5 million workers in California -
- Allowing them to take 12 weeks of unpaid leave for the birth of a child or take care of a sick
family member without fear of losing their jobs. Teen pregnancy is falling, the poverty rate is
decreasing, and the number of people on welfare is declining.

Increased Access to Education: 1.65 million students in California can benefit from the
President’s reformed student loan program through lower interest rates and more repayment
options.

Cut the Deficit in Half: Reducing the burden of national debt for every California family of four
by $15,000.

Taxes: By expanding the earned income tax credit, the President cut taxes for 2.12 million
working families in California and 40 million Americans nationwide.

Safer Streets and Communities: The President’s Crime Bill adds 4.513 police officers to
California streets. “Three Strikes and You’re Out,” Brady Bill, Assault Weapons Ban and
community policing are working.

Renewed Growth in Key Industries: After a decade of enormous job losses in construction,
manufacturing and autos, these industries have made a remarkable recovery -- more than one
million new jobs created under this Administration.

Victory ‘96
President Clinton Connects

After helping to install cable that hooked a
Concord High School into the Internet on Net Day,
the President said, “Our country is changing just as
profoundly as it did when we moved from farm to
factory, from the country to the cities and towns 100
years ago. The microchip and the global marketplace
are opening up undreamed of prospects, but real
challenges. If we want to keep the American Dream
alive for every single person who is willing to work
for it, we know that more than ever before, we have
to give all Americans the skills, the education they
need to be winners in this time of change. We must
not send our children into the 21st century
unprepared for the world they will inhabit and the
jobs they will have to fill.”

Joining the President on Net Day were
Congressional Candidate Ellen Tauscher, State
Senate Candidate Jeff Smith and State Assembly
Candidate Gail Murray.

May 1996

The Net Day project, which the President and
Vice-President announced in San Francisco last fall
was assisted in it’s implementation by Netcom,
AT&T, Sun Microsystems, Apple, the Scholastic
Network and America Online as well as others. The
Net Day kits that were mailed to schools around the
state contained 2,000 feet of cable and enough plugs
to wire a school media center and six classrooms.
Over 3,000 of these kits, worth $500, were mailed
out to schools across the state.

In addition to advancing technology for
students, the President has also started a new student
loan program which cuts costs and makes repayment
easier. The Administration’s Americorps, the
National Service Program, is three years old and
continues to successfully promote community service
for young people in exchange for funds to pay for
college.

The Federal Budget Deficit

Total Total} Total
deficit leficit deficit
in in in
6 years 2years 4 years
65.5 118.9] 226.9
billion iion billion

MMMM Federal! Budget DEFICIT (in billions of dollars)

Total iM Total
deficit iM deficit
in i in
ie 4 years 4 years
933.5 767.7
billion Bi billion

