tient Protection Ac

t: Prop 216 | IMamelates Public Disclosure of Health oan Informat ion

sateen

tient Protection Act: Prop 216 Reverses the Dangerous Short Staffing of Health Facilities |

rotection ACt

itient Protection Act:

atient Protection Act: Prop 216 Ends Gag Orders, Protects Whistleblowers

ARTICLES 2&3

A Prevent HMOs and insurers from requiring physicians and other licensed caregivers to withhold medical information

from patients.

A Prohibit HMOs, hospitals, nursing homes or other health care businesses from firing, delisting or retaliating against:
licensed and certified caregivers who speak out on behalf of patients or who report patient care violations to authorities.

WHAT YOUR DOCTOR CAN'T TELL YOU...
MIGHT KILL YOU

Doctors sign legal contracts with managed care organizations
which contain “gag” or “disparagement” clauses prohibiting
them from speaking publicly or privately on a variety of
issues: bonuses they may receive from the HMO for denying
you care; innovative procedures that can save your life, but
may cost a lot; new and expensive drugs that are more effec-
tive with fewer side effects and discomfort. A gag order
ieedent prohibits providers from having an open conversa-

or) raha isi diet cr er a

‘op ten reasons to support Prop 216-the Patient Protection Act:

_ Prevents HMOs and insurers from requiring doctors

ad nurses to withold medical information from patients.

rohibits health care providers from firing, delisting or
taliating against doctors and nurses who advocate for
atients or who report patient care violations.

. Prohibits insurance companies from giving bonuses
) doctors and nurses to encourage them to deny care.

. Ensures that medical care is determined by doctors
nd nurses, not insurance company executives. Protects
atients who are denied care by requiring that patients
sceive a second opinion and that the denial of care is
ased on established written criteria. —

. Requires safe staffing levels at all health care facilities.

. Requires public disclosure of all information relating
) quality of medical care, all financial reports, and data
bout consumer complaints and disputes.

_records without the written authorization of the patient.

viding health coverage.

Prop 216 Ends Arbitrary Denial of Care Common to HMOs

Prop 216 Bans Bonuses for Denials of Care

> PacifiCare blocked the use of Varivax, a chicken pox
vaccine that was approved by-the FDA, recommended by
medical experts, and required by law. The HMO advised
doctors to conceal the vaccine from patients and discourage
its use if patients inquired. Although this vaccination is rec-
ommended by three leading childhood immunization groups,
PacifiCare chose not to order it, possibly because each shot
costs $40. (Jay Greene, “PacifiCare Takes Hits Over Shot,”
Orange County Register, Apr. 2, 1996; Barbara Marsh,
“HMO to Be Investigated for Not Pushing Chickenpox
Vaccine,” L.A. Times, Apr. 3, 1996)

6. Protects the confidentiality of patients’ medical records
and ensures that health care businesses cannot sell medical

7. Prohibits insurance companies from requiring secret
arbitration of medical grievances as a condition for pro-

8. Creates an independent consumer watchdog associa-
tion, voluntarily funded by consumers, to ensure that
profit motives do not diminish the standard of care or
endanger lives.

9. Assesses “greed fees” on managed care industry ‘
excesses to ensure that taxpayers do not pay for the imple-

mentation of the Act, and creates a public health fund
for emergency services and public disease prevention.

10. Restricts unnecessary and/or nanan premium
increases.

). Patient Protectio

uU.

t: Prop 216 Restricts Deneererty Rate Increases

9. Patient Protection Act: Prop 216 Is Self-Funded saa Assists Community Health Services |
: |
|

8. Patient Protection Act: Prop 216 Provides Consumer Oversight

] Patient Protection Act: Prop 216 Cures Arbitration Abuse

6. Patient Protection Act: Prop 216 Protects Patient Privacy

ARTICLE 10

A. Protects the confidentiality of patients’ medical records to the fullest extent of the law.

A. Ensures that health care businesses cannot sell medical records without the express written authorization of the

patient.

PATIENT RECORDS ARE NOW A
COMMODITY FOR SALE

Hospitals, HMOs, and drug companies all maintain com-
mercial data banks which collect and store individual
medical records, containing sensitive personal information.
California’s Civil Code has extensive provisions for main-
taining medical confidentiality—but most were written
before the computer explosion. The new technology changes

everything and leaves patients extremely vulnerable.

A The Information Superhighway leads straight to your

medical records.

patient records for information, which PCN then sells to phar-
maceutical companies. PCN has assured physicians that its

software has safeguards to prevent it from capturing patients’

names. However, Joseph Masso, a Pennsylvania pharmacist,

who receives discounts for letting his drug wholesaler, FoxMeyer,

scan his prescription records weekly, says he doesn't know if

FoxMeyer extracts patient names or not: “It’s more or less a
mouth-to-mouth agreement that they will not search those

files...” (Michael W. Miller, “Patients Records Are Treasure |
Trove For Budding Industry,” Wall Street Journal, Feb. 27, 1992) |

A Breach of privacy can have serious consequences.

> Patie with AID mental i ave a creat deg

For more information call: 1-800-440-6877

—
