Bitter Divorce Turns
Deadly; Woman Shot
Outside Court

Where Kids Learn to

Live Outside Family
War Zone

By Paul Hefner and David Bloom
DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITERS

A Chatsworth woman involved in a
caustic divorce was shot in a downtown
courthouse hallway Friday and died dur-
ing emergency surgery, and police arrested
her former husband on suspicion of
murder.

Eileen M. Zelig, 40, was struck in the
chest and fell to the floor at the base of the
court’s second-floor escalator, moments
after her latest court appearance with her
ex-husband, Dr. Harry Zelig, 48, of Wood-
land Hills, authorities said.

“It was just a huge continuous scream,”
said Wendy Herzog, an attorney in the
courthouse.”

Attorney Barbara Simmons was nearby.

“T heard a loud noise like a gunshot, then
turned around and heard a little voice say-
ing, ‘He shot my mommy,” she said.

By Kim Fitzsimons

When John entered the pilot program for
children from violent homes, his greatest
wish was that his parents would stop fight-
ing. For most of his nine years, he had
longed to be like other children, who
seemed to have normal families, and he
was ashamed to be so different.

The program’s primary goal is to address
these issues and emotions which are uni-
versal among children from violent homes.

The result, it is hoped, will be less vio-
lence. Family-violence experts say that
without such intervention, children such
as John are far more likely to wind up in
violent relationships themselves, as perpe-
trators or victims.

* Typically these kids have been exposed
to a protracted period and verbal abuse,
usually between the father and mother, and
they have tremendous concerns about their

Valerie Salkin for Assembly, 12737 Glenoaks Bivd., Ste. 26, Sylmar, CA 91342, FPPC #950216, (818) 883-7777 © <i 25

own personal safety,” said psychologist
David Greenfield. “They’ve lived for so
long in such a violent, conflicted world.”
Diana Preice, program administrator,
said: “with all the evidence on violence
in society in general and problems with
kids in the court system, we finally real-
ized that a lot of these kids we’re seeing
in juvenile court are coming from these
homes. They’re only 14 and 15, and
they’re out there shooting each other.”

Man Convicted of
Spousal Abuse gets
Slap on the Wrist

Associated Press

A judge told a man convicted of spou-
sal abuse to roll up his shirt sleeve, then
punished him with a three-finger “slap” on
the wrist and said “don’t do that.”

“Today, we've lost the moral authority
to prosecute the real crime,” the judge later

Bulk Rate
U.S. Postage
PAID
USA Direct
