The National Tax Limitation Committee PAC also recommends the following votes for ballot measures and
candidates. Candidates for the Legislature have signed the “Taxpayer Protection Pledge” promising to work and vote

for lower taxes, less spending and more efficient government.
State Senator
PAULA BOLAND *

State Assembly
JOHN GERANIOS

Superior Court
Pat MURPHY *

District Attorney
Gr GARCETTI *

Bring this card to the polls when you vote Tuesday, November 5 ‘

the BULK RATE
national Oa Postage
= = . PAID
tax-limitation NTLC
committee
i. Political Action Committee

Proposition 211—Vote NO*
Sponsored by predatory attorneys, Prop 211 will flood
California courts with frivolous lawsuits, costing taxpayers
$100 million. Estimated job loss 159,000. A devastating hit
for taxpayers. Must be stopped—vote NO!

Proposition 207—Vote NO*
Sponsored by California trial attorneys, Prop 207 blocks the
fight against lawsuit abuse. If they win, taxpayers lose. Don’t
let it happen, vote NO.

Proposition 214 & 216—Vote NO*
The “twin” health care boondoggles. Both propositions
increase health care costs up to 15% while reducing access to
quality patient care. Bad medicine for taxpayers. Vote NO.

Proposition 218—Vote YES*
Prevents politicians from end-running Proposition 13 by
requiring voter approval for new local taxes and assessments.
Endorsed by the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association, Paul
Gann’s Citizens Committee, California Taxpayers Association,
the California Chamber of Commerce and 19 local taxpayer
groups. For the right to vote on taxes, vote YES!

151 North Sunrise Ave. Ste. 901
Roseville, CA 95661

Your Polling Place:

LAC=

2550143A

NOTICE TO VOTERS: This document was prepared by the National Tax Limitation Committee PAC, NOT AN OFFICIAL PARTY ORGANIZATION.
Appearance in this mailer does not necessarily imply endorsement of others appearing in this mailer, nor does it imply endorsement of, or opposition to,
any issues set forth in this mailer. Appearance is paid for and authorized by each candidate and ballot measure which is designated by an *.

