THE NEWSPAPERS THAT HAVE ENDORSED ADAM SCHIFF!

2st Senate District: The fight for this seat is
among the most expensive this year as both
parties spend madly to win a district that
includes Burbank, Glendale and Pasadena.

ader

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1996

Burbank Le

Schiff in the 2ist a stir by ‘authoring legislation

"state Senate dis- what would allow that apie

Het erat, Schift cls! ot Me wants 10 ie: 21st Senate Democrats and Republicans view the seat of
i tolghantime Gre feent our are in he stat Sch iff h retiring Republican Newton Russell as critical to
He will ben It is not unfair to call Bo. as reach d the balance of power in the Legislature. Republi-
Sacttinen to both ee Janda knee ality with rh pa i ea acro. SS can Assemblywoman Paula Boland, who has
pe and work business back a rly ines represented the northwest San Fernando Valley -

for the past six years, faces Democrat Adam
Schiff, a: federal prosecutor whose moderate

ISSUE:
California ger Mor = This is Bivens Senate District:
on sniff running for the can rise ict needs is 5
hepa ito ith state Senate D a et the res co can Teach ee Partisanship, Bea beans message appears to be attracting voters.
master the in- Seat when pressed State oh cnet Democrat to both sides of the aise : itici
section of on hard pub- fe government ints ser RODD of the aisle, win Perhaps the most recognizable local politician
we am Py Adam into the b cans alike, : : ees
public edu WE SAY: Scnitt's expert--( Se alands pi ss ang a moderate Democrat problem colvin get our of late, Boland earned attention with legislation
Ean Seewok some picked wey coconamens et Sp to make it easier to break up bol 12
same way mie ena There bietetend Asante offers that choice Angeles Unified School District and the city
alts oe Fane exons, Bae : en ae, Senate iemtiorse itself. We criticized her unsuccessful bid to
national defense in Congress. might help local districts but oi -year- i i jvisi
national dene looming demo- simply chanting party tor, has impeccat no former federal pros remove barriers to a Valley secession as divisive
graphic bulge, Schiff says we marie 4s not enough. By con- tials. He su lough-on-crime ecu- and counterproductive. She has opposed a
must being crea to KeeD trast, Schill corn person While also calling fer reene sk woman's agcess to abortions in all cases except
te ways 5 to ens or rehabilitati LW, PA 5 5
Mids rst order of business whe ons that oauce arent ‘slikely Faas tative programs incest and when the mother’s life is threatened.
is reform of the juvenile jus- positive results 10 years from Me ely to return to jai
ftp reform of tho ities a cop- ow, not just heelines on to Many of his views rE Her refusal to appear at most
; toe evstense that we must in- nights news, Pianoderate voters in th hose debates against Schiff has
| tervene with the , this is not an easy ict: He's in favor e dis- "i irtual ghost i
Tiron adr iets hse able gun contol mace mage Her agsiial BIR ey
venile juste syste 7 we do elec and it be an a Eos rous have remand and district she moved to only
those 10" teens al- ive legislator we
ter 2000 will overwhelm our {ssues beyond the jus- school Soa permits, Hee increased the availabily lation _ after term limits forced her
oes wth gang ine and tie system ta renter dP schools, oes that would pes ee ape out of the Assembly.
\ strike look Coes Petia her reas, has Pie ©: the most co: ic funds flow to peat ELECTION 96 Schiff’s record as a federal
\ Schiff demonstrat ity to as} my i ¥ . :
“rom lel police departments make an pac in Sacramen adees sa a5 well ag cet testament to Schits cont Local prosecutor backs up his claims
‘unl testim + 3 roar Ate i . 4
‘bility when mony ponent, As Three factors give Schiff the a dozen or so geo Politics, is that ioe his thoughtful ae Endorsements of being a Democrat who's
ibility whenan Paula Boland, edge: his know of the lines and endorg po ted Republi 's managed to convine tough on crime. Although fi-
chaired the Assembly Public justice system record as a Glendal lorse him. These ican Officials to convince :
Safety committe Schiff also federal Prosecutor his s alee, of ae La Crescent te Spa rom ae nanced heavily by the Demo-
‘ of local tae ard met ver Pind’s willingness to go be: moderate te and city coe farino; they're Sea cratic Party, Schiff claims that stubbornness and
bers, including Republicans, yond the norms of f tough ae tors ate Republicans should feel Bc: ust Schiff. ee independence run in his family. He supports the
eee pega: Fae Ve
ween candidate Paula Boland i casting a vote death penalty, term limits and tough criminal
Tenders, Who won headlines, an rola iS a feisty stateh, sentencing laws like three strikes. Schiff
te northeast: arch-conservative oe Demcaenae emphasizes the connection between public safety
ee strident Gana, Valley. She's been trcpresenting and public education. His proposal to invest in
campaign tactics dont dona thetoric ieee gn ee children now to keep them out of trouble later
my ides makes sense. He believes the lack of investment

in public education ends up costing more in the
long run as students drop out and turn to crime
or welfare. The Times endorses Schiff.

