AMERICAN
CANCER,
SOCIETY

1-800-ACS-2345

Document 006523
MARIJUANA FOR CHEMOTHERAPY-INDUCED NAUSEA AND VOMITING

Some anti-cancer drugs cause nausea and vomiting because they affect parts of the
brain that control vomiting and/or cause irritation of the stomach lining. The
severity of these symptoms depends on several factors, including the
chemotherapeutic agents used and the patient's reaction to the drug(s). The
management of nausea and vomiting caused by chemotherapy js an Important part
of care for many cancer patients. Although patients usually receive antiemetics,
drugs that help control nausea and vomiting, there is no single best approach to
reducing these symptoms in all patients. Doctors must tailor antiemetic therapy to
meet each individual's needs, taking into account the type of anti-cancer drugs
being administered; the patient’s general condition, age, and related factors; and, of
course, the extent to which the antiemetic is helpful.

There has been much interest in the use of marijuana to treat a number of medical
problems, including chemotherapy-Induced nausea and vomiting in cancer patients.
Two forms of marijuana have been used: cigarettes and compounds related to the
active chemical constituent of marijuana taken orally. One such compound that is
currently available by prescription for use as an antiemetic Is dronabinol (Marinol), @
synthetic form of the active marijuana constituent delta - 9 - tetrahydrocannabinol
(THC). ;

At this time, National Cancer Institute (NCI) scientists believe that dronabinol
probably is not as effective as certain other antiemetics or combinations of
antiemetics in controlling nausea and vomiting caused by the initial courses of
anti-cancer drugs known to produce such symptoms. Furthermore, the
effectiveness of dronabinol varies among patients. Therefore, this substance may
be helpful in alleviating the nausea and vomiting caused by some but not all
anti-cancer drugs- In addition, the absorption of dronabinol varies from patient to
patient. This compound often causes 4 “high” (loss of control or sensation of
unreality), which is associated with its effectiveness; however, this sensation may
be unpleasant for elderly patients and those inexperienced in marijuana use.

Marijuana cigarettes also have been used to treat chemotherapy- induced nausea
and vomiting, and research has shown that THC is more quickly absorbed from
