(Retirees chapter letter)

Dear Retiree Member,

On election day of 1994, Senator Bob Dole complained to the Washington Post (11/6/94) that
President Clinton was ‘‘resorting to scare tactics’’ because the President accused Republican
leaders of having “‘secret plans’ to cut Medicare. Within months, events proved the President was
right. :

The new leadership in Congress — led by Newt Gingrich and Senator Dole — tried to pass a tax
cut that mostly benefited the wealthy. To pay for the tax cut, Gingrich and Dole set their sights on
Medicare, education, the environment and other programs. How deep were the cuts they pro-
posed? Cuts in Medicaid reimbursements would have forced up to 700 urban and rural hospitals
to close their doors. Medicare cuts would have cost each beneficiary $1,700 by the year 2002.

These cuts would have become a reality had it not been for President Clinton. He had the courage
to veto the Gingrich-Dole plan — even after these Republicans threatened to shut down the federal
government. In the end, Gingrich and Dole backed down. President Clinton would have earned our
support for this stand alone, but there are many other ways in which the President has shown he
cares about us:

@ President Clinton’s support helped to pass the Kennedy-Kassebaum bill, preventing insurance
companies from using “pre-existing conditions” to deny individuals coverage. The President
remains concerned about the issue of affordability, and he has a proposal to prevent insurers from
“cherry picking’ — actions taken by insurers which are designed to weed out seniors, retirees, the
acutely ill and other high-+isk participants.

@ The President has opposed efforts by some in Congress to allow employers to dip into pension
funds set aside for their employees’ retirement.

® Clinton signed legislation that more than doubled the earnings limit for Social Security recipients
— the earnings limit will rise to $30,000 by the year 2002.

@ In one of his first official acts, President Clinton signed the Family and Medical Leave Act, allow-
ing working people to take up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave to care for a newborn, or for a parent or
family member who is ill.

Decades ago, our nation made a commitment to older Americans and their families. But Bob Dole
and Newt Gingrich led the charge to betray this commitment.

On issue after issue, President Clinton has been there for us — Medicare, public education, the
environment, crime and so many others. On November 5, it’s our turn to be there for him. If we sit
this election out, we could suffer the consequences. Too much is at stake for us to take that
chance. Please join me in supporting President Clinton for re-election on Tuesday, November 5.
Thank you.

In solidarity,

[Your name], President
[Name of AFT Local]
