. Zz

Reform Party Nomination Acceptance Speech
Valley Forge, PA — August 18, 1996

It’s great to be with you tonight. I want to thank all of the people — Max Dat, Bill
Gaylord, Tony Volpentest and all the others who put this together.

I have to tell you a story about my mother and the rescue in Iran. She was dying of
cancer. I went into her hospital room to tell her I had to go into Iran. When I finished she
looked me in the eye and said these are your men. You sent them over there. They didn’t
do anything wrong. The government can’t get them out. It’s your responsibility to get
them out. God bless her.

You saw the beautiful picture of Bill and Paul reunited with their families. Guess who left
the hospital and was sitting at the curb at the airport watching them? She was.

I’m going to tell you another story. I met Max after the war, but the first indication I had
that he was in trouble came from prisoners of war who had gone all the way into Thailand
as Saigon was falling and were going back to Vietnam. Now how’s that for courage? To
rescue Dat, Captain Howard Rutledge, a Navy Captain Retired, called me and said Ross,
we need financial help. He explained the problem. I said give me a few hours to try to get
him out and we were lucky we got him out.

I waned you to hear that story of men who spent eight years in hell and then went back in
because of their commitment to Max Dat.

I hope that all of you tomorrow think how discouraged we get when we break a
fingernail. Isn’t Tony Volpentest a role model for all of us? No matter what’s going on, I
hope that every single one of you will be watching tomorrow night when he goes for the
gold.

Thank you for creating the Reform Party. It’s a historic event. Something like this only
happens about once every hundred years in this country.

I am honored and I am humbled that you have chosen me as your candidate to be
president. You have my solemn promise that I will only act in the best interest of our
country. This is your country. I will be your servant. I will only belong to you, the people,
and I am absolutely committed, irrevocably committed, to passing on a better world to
our children and grandchildren.

