HMO Casualty of the Day

September 17, 1996

Infant Dies After HMO Denies
Emergency Room Treatment

|

“My HMO refused to provide the service they were supposed to provide. My baby
daughter was in the trauma center and the HMO wouldn’t authorize the treatment
she needed. I kept trying to talk to my HMO doctor but they couldn't locate him.
They wouldn't let her be treated and she died. No one should suffer the way that my
family and I suffered. I don’t feel safe with HMOs anymore.”

Dawnelle Keys, Victorville, CA

On May 6, 1993, Dawnelle Keys, a child counselor, called the paramedics because her
19 month old daughter, Mychelle Williams, had gone into respiratory distress and had a
105.6 degree fever. In the next crucial hours, Dawnelle came up against an HMO system
where cost-cutting and "managed" care created delayed responses and fatal
miscommunication. The paramedics transported Mychelle to the local hospital trauma
center, and hospital staff called Dawnelle's HMO to gain permission to treat her
daughter beyond basic breathing treatments. What followed was four hours of HMO
delays and negligence.

Dawnelle's HMO doctors advised the local hospital not to do any treatments beyond
breathing therapy, and to have Dawnelle transport her severely ill daughter in her own
car to the HMO hospital. Dawnelle, frightened for her daughter's condition, refused to
simply put her daughter in her car and struggled with the HMO representatives on the
telephone, trying to order an ambulance. When Dawnelle returned to her daughter's
bedside, she found her having seizures, and had to search for a doctor on the
understaffed ward to treat her. It took this increase in the severity of Mychelle's
condition to convince the HMO to authorize an ambulance. By the time Mychelle finally
reached the HMO hospital, she went into full cardiac arrest, and died.

Dawnelle's only daughter died on May 6, 1993, after receiving minimal, negligent
treatment. Mychelle's two brothers and her parents continue to mourn her loss. Dawnelle
says "I don't feel safe with HMO hospitals anymore. They push you right on in and out.
Nobody takes time anymore. A lot of times you don't even get to see the doctor that
you're supposed to see. If he’s not there you're shuffled to somebody else that doesn't
really know you or know what's going on with you.” Dawnelle has been working to pass
the Patient Protection Act, distributing information to her friends, because she doesn't
“want anyone else to go through that.” Prop 216 will end the HMO practice where
needed care is denied because it is too costly, and where doctors receive financial

bonuses to limit treatment.
For More Information: 415-437-3325 310-392-0522

