CRIME AND REHABILITATION

THE NATURAL LAW PARTY envisions an
America free of crime, where all citizens live
fully in accord with both natural law and national
law; where people freely move on the streets
without fear; and where Americans live and work
together harmoniously for both their own ful-
fillment and the national good.

THE PROBLEM

Crime costs Americans $450 billion annually [1].
Despite two decades of “get tough” policies—
with longer, often mandatory prison sentences—
the rate of violent crime in America has risen
almost 30% in the last ten years [2]. Of gravest
concern, juvenile violent crime has spiraled dur-
ing the past decade—especially urban gang and
school violence using guns [3]. The FBI’s most
recent crime report concluded that “every Ameri-
can has a realistic chance of being murdered
because of the random nature [that] crime has
assumed.”

America’s criminal justice system is under con-
stant strain. Courts, police, probation and parole
agencies, and prisons are overworked and inad-
equate to deal with the high level of crime [4].

Clearly, a “get-tough” policy is not enough.
Effective crime prevention is also crucial. Yet
despite the dismal track record of “get-tough”
approaches, Republican and Democratic legis-
lators ignore proven preventive strategies and
press for more police, more prisons, and stiffer
punishment. Consider the following:

¢ Building more prisons has not reduced
crime. The U.S. already has 1.3 million citizens
in jail—the highest percentage of any country in
the world [5]. Building more prisons throws more
money at this already failed system. California,
for example, spent $3.8 billion on prison con-
struction from 1980 to 1992 and quadrupled its
prison population, yet violent crimes continued
to rise [6].

26

¢ The threat of punishment is not enough.
Most violent crime is “an impulsive response to
an immediate stressful situation,” often commit-
ted under the influence of drugs or aleohol—
not a rational, considered action [7].

¢ Many experts feel that prisons train inmates
to be better criminals [8]. Most violent crime
is committed by hard-core repeat offenders: the
majority of all prisoners commit new crimes and
are arrested within three years of release.

¢ More police on the street does not lower
crime. Published reports indicate that increased
police patrols in major U.S. cities have had little
effect on crime rates [9]. Washington, D.C., for
example, has the highest police/population ra-
tio in the nation—and one of the highest violent
crime rates. The new $25 billion crime bill
designed to deploy 100,000 more police repre-
sents merely a drop in the bucket and is hardly
cost-effective.

Increasing recognition of the need for preven-
tion has led to experimental approaches such as
Drug Abuse Resistance Education (DARE) and
midnight basketball. Unfortunately, long-term
scientific studies have found no significant effects
on crime and drug abuse from such programs [10].

THE SOLUTION

The Natural Law Party believes that these
“bandaid” approaches do not work because they
fail to address the root cause of crime—the epi-
demic of stress throughout society. During the
past two decades, medical science has
documented the alarming rise of stress-related
illness such as hypertension, stroke, and heart
disease. This same build-up of stress is respon-
sible for a similar rise in social illnesses—crime,
drug abuse, domestic violence, and family dis-
integration.

Current crime prevention programs overlook the
psychological and physiological devastation

CRIME AND REHABILITATION PLATFORM

wrought by constant, traumatic stress. Stress
causes a complex psychophysiological chain
reaction that makes the nervous system
hyperexcited and unstable [11]. Chronic, acute
stress leads to serious physiological malfunc-
tion. Among other effects, the body’s neuro-
chemical balance is distorted, producing abnor-
mally high levels of cortisol (a primary stress
hormone) and low levels of serotonin (a key
neurotransmitter) [12]. This out-of-balance bio-
chemistry has been linked with anxiety, fear,
anger, impulsive violent behavior, and substance
abuse [13].

Moreover, the combined stress of all the indi-
viduals in society builds up and creates a dan-
gerous, criminal atmosphere in the whole com-
munity. This societal stress and tension becomes
a breeding ground for more crime and violence.
Thus, to reduce crime, stress must be reduced
in at-risk individuals and throughout society.

Reducing social stress—In addition to a tough
penal code as a deterrent to crime, the Natural
Law Party offers systematic, scientifically
proven programs to reduce stress in the indi-
vidual and throughout society—thus eliminat-
ing the root cause of crime. At least one such
program, the Transcendental Meditation pro-
gram, has been scientifically shown to (1)
reduce individual and social stress; (2) reduce
cortisol and increase serotonin production in the
body, thus counteracting the neurochemical
imbalances produced by stress; and (3) decrease
anxiety, hostility, and anger, and improve psy-
chological development and moral reasoning [14].

Forty-three published scientific studies have
shown that large groups practicing the Transcen-
dental Meditation and TM-Sidhi program in one
location reduce social stress and violence. These
studies, which have investigated the impact of
such groups on communities, cities, and entire
nations, have consistently found decreases in
crime, war deaths, and other negative social
indicators, as well as improvements in economy
and national mood [15]. This innovative ap-
proach offers a highly cost-effective, scientifi-

cally proven strategy to eliminate the fundamen-
tal cause of crime through reducing individual
and societal stress.

Effective prison rehabilitation—The most
cost-effective prevention strategy is to target
those individuals who are at highest risk for
crime—the current prison inmate population,
90% of whom will be released from prison. A
five-year Harvard study investigated the effects
of the Transcendental Meditation technique in a
maximum security prison. Inmates who learned
the practice decreased significantly in stress,
aggression, and mental disorders. Violence
throughout the prison decreased, and the rate of
return to prison among participating inmates was
30-35% less than for four other treatment groups
[16]. Similar studies in 28 other maximum se-
curity prisons have shown equally impressive
results [17]. (Current rehabilitation strategies

~ put the cart before the horse. They try to reedu-

27

cate and reform inmates without first changing
inmates from within by ridding them of the stress
that makes them uninterested in education or
incapable of being reformed [18].)

Community policing—tin New York City, a new
initiative called computer-assisted community
policing has been credited with reducing crime
by 40% during the last two years. In this
approach, police are assigned to high-crime
neighborhoods identified by computer tracking,
work closely with these neighborhoods, and are
rewarded for preventing crime. According to sta-
tistics from the New York Police Department,
murder in New York City dropped 31% during
the first half of 1995 compared to the first six
months of 1994, with similar reductions in other
categories of violent crime. This striking
improvement led one journalist to refer to New
York as “the suddenly safer city” [19].

Urban revitalization—Our overcrowded,
decaying urban centers obviously contribute to
the rise of stress and crime. Any program to
reduce crime must involve a comprehensive plan
to revitalize the inner cities, as laid out in our
“Revitalizing Our Inner Cities” section.
