to any space in a mobilehome park covered by
a mobilehome park rent control law as of the
effective date of this Measure, the occurrence
of any of the following events after the effective
date of this Measure: (i) Any sale, transfer (by
foreclosure, operation of law or otherwise), or
other change in ownership of the mobilehome
_ (as defined in Section 798.3 of this Chapter);

(ii) Any termination of the tenancy of the
persons who are tenants in such space by
eviction, voluntary vacancy or otherwise; or
(iii) Any sub-lease by the tenant to a third
party of the mobilehome or space after the
effective date of this Measure, provided
nothing contained herein is intended to
authorize any such sub-lease of the
mobilehome or space. Notwithstanding the
provisions of subdivisions (i), (ii), and (iii)
herein, no decontrolling event shall be deemed
to have occurred upon any transfer of
ownership of a mobilehome to the conservator,
guardian or trustee of a homeowner or to a
homeowner’s trust (provided that the
beneficiaries entitled to ownership of the
mobilehome are. members of the homeowner’s
immediate family), or to a surviving spouse
upon the death of the other spouse, or to a

spouse or the parent(s) or children of a

homeowner.

(g) “Subsidized rental charge”
means the amount of rent chargeable to the
qualified tenant under this Measure, after
deducting the rental assistance subsidy from
the rent otherwise lawfully chargeable to the
tenant. ;

SECTION 4: AMENDMENT OF
CHAPTER 2.5 OF DIVISION 2 OF THE
CALIFORNIA CIVIL CODE

Chapter 2.5 of Part 2 of Division 2 of the

California Civil Code is hereby amended as

follows by adding a new Article 4.4, as follows:
Article 4.4 Tenant Rental Assistance

798.44.1 Any qualified tenant may

Whenever one occurs, at that point rent control
protection shall be lost:

1. Sale or transfer, including foreclosure.
z Eviction or abandonment.
3. Sublease.

Transfer of title for convenience, such as to ‘a
living trust, is not a “decontrolling event.”

This will be a brand new section of the
Mobilehome Residency Law.

Note: The resident must apply to management

PAGE A-8
