PRESIDENT CLINTON'S VISION:
An Agenda For the Future

The President has outlined an agenda for his second term which butlds on the core values of America: opportunity,
responsibility, and community.

PRACTICING FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY:

Economic opportunity is the key to making our country strong. In his second term, the President will fight to:

» Reduce the deficit further, restoring our sense of economic possibility and our ability as a nation to invest in the
future. This will help bring down interest rates, enabling Americans to buy more homes and cars, to start
businesses, and to go to college.

e Pass a balanced budget with $110 billion in targeted tax cuts, including a $500 per-child tax credit.

INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE:

Clearly, the key to a bright future is a solid education. The President will fight to give every American access to a

quality education through:

* College tuition tax deductions of up to $10,000 for education and training at any age.

« America’s HOPE Scholarships -- tax credits of up to $1,500 per year for the first year of college, renewable for a
second year with a B-average or better.

¢ Anexpansion of the College Work Study program from 700,000 to 1 million students by 2000.

* Increased Pell Grants to provide more aid to students to attend college.

« $1,000 scholarships for the top 5% of every high school class.

HELPING AMERICANS BE BOTH GOOD PARENTS AND GOOD WORKERS:

Easing the pressures on today's parents -- who often must choose between the increasing demands of work and family

-- will help us as a nation by building stronger familics. The President will fight to:

¢ Expand the Family & Medical Leave Act to allow employees to take up to 24 hours unpaid leave per year for
parent-teacher conferences or routine medical care for a child or relative.

¢ Permit flex time policies that allow workers to choose to work overtime in exchange for paid time off.

ENSURING EACH CITIZENS' SAFETY:

While overall crime rates have dropped, a great deal is left to do to ensure every Americans’ safety at.d freedom.

President Clinton will continue his crime-fighting agenda by:

e Banning cop killer bullets. :

¢ Toughening treatment of violent youth offenders and gun-wielding drug dealers and gang members.

¢ Reducing the rise in gun violence by instituting a national system to track guns to their source. A pilot version in
Boston has been so successful that no juveniles have been killed by handguns so far this year.

INCREASING OUR SECURITY:

Le President will work to make Americans more secure in their jobs, their homes, and their communities by fighting

or:

* Anew "GI bill" for downsized workers which will consolidate 70 overlapping, antiquated federai training
programs and use the resources instead to provide a simple $2,600 "Skills Grant” that workers can use as they
choose for tuition or training.

¢ Increased access to affordable, quality health care.

+ Intensified anti-terrorism efforts through tougher enforcement and more cross-border cooperation.

¢ More aggressive efforts to combat international drug-trafficking through international cooperation agreements,
military support, and anti-corruption efforts.

¢ The preservation and strengthening of Medicare and Medicaid.

« Expanded IRA's that allow for free withdrawal for retirement, education, first homes, and medical care.

Authorized and paid for by the Democratic National Committee
