798.44.7 (a) A mobilehome park’s
management shall not terminate the tenancy of
any tenant, or attempt to do so, or retaliate
against any tenant, or attempt to do so, as a
proximate result of a request by that tenant for
a rental assistance subsidy or the exercise of
any rights relating thereto as provided in this
Article.

(b) Any demand by
mobilehome park’s management for rent in
excess of the subsidized rental charge from any
qualified tenant whose application was denied
or rejected in violation of this Article, shall
constitute a defense to any action brought by
the mobilehome park management for (1) the
excess rent over the subsidized rental charge
or (2) eviction of the qualified tenant from the
mobilehome park for non-payment of that
excess rent. However, this subdivision does
not apply if enforcement of the subsidized
rental charge would violate any constitutional
right of the owner of the mobilehome park to
a fair rate of return.

SECTION 5: AMENDMENT OF ARTICLE
4.5 OF PART 2 OF DIVISION 2 OF THE
CALIFORNIA CIVIL CODE

Article 4.5 of Part 2 of Division 2 of the
California Civil Code is amended to add the
following new Sections 798.46.1, 798.46.2, and
798.46.3 as follows:

798.46.1 On or after the effective date
of this Measure, no city, county, or city and
county, shall (a) enact any new mobilehome

. park rent control law or (b) amend or modify

any existing mobilehome park rent control law
to apply its restriction on maximum rents to
any space in a mobilehome park which is not,
on the effective date of this Measure, by reason
of a long term lease or otherwise, subject to
rent restrictions under the mobilehome rent
control law.

This says:

1b Management can’t evict or retaliate as a
result of the subsidy process. This sounds nice,
but 798.56 protects residents from this already,
as do other laws. ;

2. A demand for rent which exceeds the
reduced amount of rent due after subsidy credit
given is wrongful. This sounds good, but note
the open-ended exception: except where granting
a subsidy “deprives the management . . . of its
constitutional right to a fair retum on its
property.” Even judges cannot define “fair
return.” As written, this exception could
invalidate the subsidies even for the 10% group,
since the park owner could allege that the elusive
“fair return” concept requires higher rents.

This part will be added to existing Article 4.5 of
the Mobilehome Residency Law, which is
entitled “Rent Control.”

No new mobilehome rent ordinances can be
enacted.

No existing rent ordinances can be amended.

The net effect: a total pre-emption of local
government.

PAGE A-13
