COLLEGE PREP

The number of students of color entering college has grown dramatically over the last decade.
Previously underrepresented student groups now comprise over 18.8% of in-state undergraduates on
University of California (UC) campuses, as compared to 9.8% in the fall of 1980.* All three systems
of public higher education in California -- UC, California State University (CSU), and the California
Community Colleges (CCC) -- have developed programs and policies to address the
underrepresentation of various groups in their student populations. The increase in minority student
enrollment is due, in part, to these programs, programs that are specifically targeted to encourage
students to choose to go on to college after high school. One such program is known as the Early
Academic Outreach Program, or EAOP. This program aims to increase the number of
underrepresented students who become eligible to attend the UC or other institutions of higher
education and works with 176 school districts and the eight UC campuses. In a recent year, a full 48
percent of graduating seniors in EAOP either became UC eligible or potentially eligible for UC
admission.’ The California Academic Partnership Program, or CAPP, is a similar program
administered by California State University (CSU). CAPP is a cooperative effort that involves 15
school districts, 15 public college and university campuses, and two independent colleges and
universities.

Other programs exist on a smaller scale in specific communities. For example, in Compton the
Fighting to Improve Retention and Student Transition, or FIRST, program works with students at
Compton High, where students' failure rate in math and English approaches 80 percent. The FIRST
tutors visit the school to conduct SAT/PSAT and higher education workshops. Tutors also provide
three hours of help in math, English, essay writing, physics and chemistry at the school on Saturdays.

In Los Angeles, the Pilipino Recruitment and Enrichment Program at UCLA, or PREP, tutors
host college-application and financial-aid workshops and participate in college mentorship programs.
Other UCLA students provide Vietnamese students with information on college systems and courses,
financial aid, and college applications through the Vietnamese Reaching Out to Aid the Community
Program.

In the Los Angeles Unified School District, women are the focus of a new college prep
Program. The program, called Young Women Exploring Non-Traditional Careers, trains high school
girls and community women for nontraditional careers through advanced math and vocational classes.

COLLEGE RETENTION

Once students reach college, the pressures that could cause them to lose sight of their ultimate
academic goals do not disappear. For students who are the first in their families ever to attend college
or who have never even had a role model in their lives who is a college graduate, the prospect of
negotiating the college environment can be daunting at best.

To address the concerns of these students and others, California's colleges operate retention

“Public Schools and Higher Education," Chapter V, The Status of Affirmative Action in California, California Senate Office of Research, March
1995.

2 Id.

Presented by the
UCLA School of Law Affirmative Action
Outreach, Education & Organizing Project
For More Information, Please E-Mail Us at "Mattson@Law3.Law.UCLA.Edu"
& Visit Our Affirmative Action Homepage at "http://www.law.ucla.edu/Class/Archive/CivAA/*
