798.46.2 Every mobilehome park rent
control law in effect as of the effective date of
this Measure shall be subject to the following
provisions:

(a) On or after January 1 of the
year following the effective date of this
Measure, no mobilehome park rent control
law may, with respect to the rent which a
mobilehome park management may charge for
a space within such park, either (i) require that
the rent for such space ever be reduced from
that lawfully charged before the effective date
of this Measure or as of any subsequent date,
or (ii) limit any annual rent increase to an
amount which is less than the full annual cost
of living increase, as measured by the change
in such cost of living from the 12-month period
ending in the calendar month preceding the
date in which a notice of rent increase is given
by the mobilehome park management at any
time, and from time to time, after the effective
date of this Measure.

For purposes of this
paragraph, the cost of living shall be
determined using the California Consumer
Price Index (“CCPI”), as published by the

Department of Industrial Relations for all’

items and all urban consumers, and this index
for the 1982-1984 period shall be computed as
100.

(b) No jurisdiction administering
any mobilehomé park rent control law shall
require the management of a mobilehome park
to attend any hearing or submit any
information to such jurisdiction so long as
management limits the rental increases for any
space affected by the mobilehome park rent
control law to such full annual CCPI increase
as provided in subdivision (a) of this section.

(c) On or after the effective date
of this Measure, no mobilehome park rent
control law shall impose any restriction
whatsoever on the amount of rent that the
management of a mobilehome park may

All existing mobilehome rent ordinances shall:

(i) Not require rent rollbacks or rent
reductions.

(ii) not limit annual increases to anything
less than 100% of CPI.

Since most ordinances provide for increases
averaging 75% of CPI, residents shall be
immediately affected by the Initiative, even
before a “decontrolling event” occurs which
removes the space from rent control. Rents shall
begin to rise in most jurisdictions as soon as the
Initiative passes.

While rent control is being phased out, no
hearings or proof are required for “100% of CPI”
increases. Thus, a park owner could annually
increase rents by up to 100% of CPI without any
ability of residents to object.

As soon as a space is “decontrolled,” it loses rent
protection forever (see definition of
“decontrolling event” above). Thus, over a
period of a few years, all rent control protection
shall be phased out.

PAGE A-l4+
