eet ee Clinton’s leadership is making a difference around
the world. Children from Port-au-Prince to Sarajevo can now
look with hope to a future of peace rather than live with the
horrors of war. The Clinton Administration is:

@ Reducing the nuclear threat — President Clinton has secured
bipartisan U.S. ratification of START II — When ratified by
Russia, START II will reduce nuclear stockpiles by another 25
percent.

INEPAX@O ADEE © Standing firm in Bosnia -

decisive American leadership has
helped end the bloodshed and

OF LEADERSHIP

A RIRR@JANDIME destruction in Bosnia — President
Clinton led the effort to conclude
a comprehensive peace, negotiated in Dayton.

@ Restoring democracy in Haiti — the U.S. helped bring about the
first transfer of power from one democratically elected president
to another in Haitian history — The Haitian people no longer
fear walking the streets of Port-au-Prince, and the dangerous
flow of refugees to U.S. shores has been stopped.

@ Working for peace in Northern
Ireland — President Clinton
became the first American
President to visit Northern Ireland
in pursuit of a real, just and last-
ing peace.

@ Working toward democracy in
Cuba — President Clinton imposed
the toughest sanctions ever on
Castro’s Cuba following the brutal

President Clinton and Nobel Laureate Elie Weisel at Oval Office ye i
Press Conference on Bosnia. killings of U.S. nationals over

international waters.

@ Ensuring that America remains the best equipped, best trained
and best prepared fighting force in the world to meet the post-
cold war challenges to peace.

Sax Israel's Independence in 1948, every Democratic
Party Platform has recognized the unique nature of the US -
Israel relationship. As two great democracies dedicated to
peace, American and Israel share a historic and unbreakable
bond.

The Clinton Administration has made significant contri-
butions to this enduring relationship. It has:

@ Helped Israel and the
Palestinians broker their NAVER a
historic accord. U NWAVERING

IPART

@ Helped Israel and Jordan St JPPORI

achieve a historic peace FOR | SRA

treaty and sponsored its

signing in Aquaba, Jordan. O UR PA RINER

@ Initiated the Summit of the | N PE GE
. Peacemakers in Sharm El ;

Sheik, Egypt, which brought world lead-
ers together to find new ways to protect
the people of the world from terrorism.

© Continued America’s commitment to
provide military and economic aid as
well as aid for immigration resettlement
in Israel.

@ Signed into law the US - Israel Counter
Terrorism Cooperation Accord, which
will send $50 million and a team of
anti-terrorism experts to Israel to
engage in information sharing, research
and development, and investigation,
prosecution and extradition activities.

President Clinton addresses Israel Knesset, 1994.

@ Working with Israel to prevent nuclear weapons from falling
into the hands of terrorists and international criminals.

@ Created the US - Israel Science and Technology Commission,
fostering historic cooperation between the U.S. and Israeli gov-
ernments through the U.S. Department of Commerce and the
Israel Ministry of Trade.
DiS SEA EE RSE NE So
