~

4? 1996 18:24:14 Via Fax Be 318 2668551 Jan Goldsmith Page 682 OF BAZ

President Clinton and the Democrats in Congress: Building a Bridge to the 21st Century.
This means providing Americans with the educational opportunities necessary to give them the
skills and training they need to get better jobs, earn higher incomes and enjoy a brighter future.

In today’s global economy, we are committed to keeping America competitive by ensuring that
students get the education, training and know-how they need to compete and succeed.

The differences on this issue, between President Clinton and Senator Dole, couldn’t be more clear.
Here's the Clinton vision and the Clinton Record:

Hope Scholarships make the first two years of college as universal as high school. All students
would receive a $1,500 refundable tax credit for that would pay for more than the full tuition cost
at the average community college.

Merit Scholarships: to reward the top 5% of high school graduates with $1,000 grants toward the
cost of college.

Tuition Tax Deduction: $10,000 per year for the cost of college tuition and training.

AmeriCorps: the President’s national service initiative that gives young people the opportunity
to earn money for college by serving their communities and their country. In the past two years,
45,000 volunteers have worked in schools, hospitals, neighborhoods and parks while earning money
for college.

Head Start Funding to provide early education to tens of thousands more children.

Making College More Affordable/Student Loans: Tuition shouldn’t be a barrier to a good
education. President Clinton has reformed the Student Loan program so that millions of students
have flexible repayment options, including pay-as-you-earn plans. President Clinton also increased
Pell grants.

Technology: President Clinton signed into law a measure that will ensure that schools, libraries,
hospitals, and clinics have affordable access to advanced telecommunications services; a critical step
toward connecting each child in every classroom throughout America to the Information
Superhighway—opening up worlds of knowledge and opportunities to all students and ensuring that
they can compete in tomorrow’s workplace. President Clinton has proposed a $2 billion, five-year
Technology Literacy Challenge to link every classroom in America to the Information
Superhighway by the year 2000.

Safe Schools: Our kids can’t learn if our schools aren’t safe. President Clinton enacted the
Gun-Free Schools Act, which requires the immediate expulsion for one-year of any student who
brings a gun to school.

Public School Choice. President Clinton believes that information, competition and choice among

public schools should be the rule, not the exception.
Democratic National Commitee, Octaber 7, 1996

10/07/96 15:26 TX/RX NO.0545 P.002 F
