2a:

somplextt ty of our :ax peat a wastes siltions of hours in eer par efort oe ea or

all--convinces many Americans that -he tax system nas been hijacked by iawvers, accountants,
ana special interests. which it has.

The Clinton Admunistration is content with the starus quo and has no intention of
seriousiy reformung the current tax system. Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin recently told the
Wall Street Journal: “There's nothing in the public domain we have found that’s terer than
what we have.” (6/7/96) Obviously, a second Clinton term promises no relief for taxpayers and
no simplification of the tax code.

Senator Dole believes that restoring America to its full economic potential requires a
fundamental overhaul of the tax system. He will repeal the current tax code and replace it with a
new system that:

1. Treats all Americans fairly by ending special-interest loopholes and taxing income at
lower rates.

2. Is simgple enough so that most Americans can file their taxes on a form the size of a
posteard or not have to file a return at all.

rey

Substantially reduces or eliminates the bias against savings and investment.

4. Relieves the tax burden on working Americans by allowing for the deductibility of
the payroll tax.

$. Protects social security.

6. Requires a supermajority of both chambers of Congress to raise income tax rates.

This new cax system. which is lower. flatter, fairer. simpler and more savings-oriented.
will provide immediate tax relief to every taxpayer and stimulate economic growth now.

NDIN: iow

As the tax code has grown more complex and loophole-ridden. the Internal Revenue
Service has grown more aggressive and more burdensome. The IRS today has more enforcement
agents than the EPA, OSHA. FDA. and the Drug Enforcement Agency combined. (Source: Steppe
Moure et al, “Ax he Ta.” Nusignal Review April 7. 1999. svi 4
the FSL, (suurce: Report of the National Commission va Econome Gor aw Tax Reform The instruction booklet for
the EZ form is 31 pages long. Taxpayers spend $199 billion and 6 billion man-hours each year
to comply with the tax code. (suurss: fois Economic Cumminner
