Under this special interest loophole, such PACs could contribute tens of thousands of
dollars. Philip Morris, for example, could organize "smokers' rights" PACs that could
legally contribute $20,000 to each candidate in every legislative district, $40,000 per state-
wide race and $120,000 per political party (in a 2-year cycle).

Not surprisingly, the state's largest PAC contributor to legislative races is supporting ACA
and has pledged a $100,000 contribution.

The ACA would invalidate strict, voter approved local campaign finance
ordinances already in effect.

Campaign finance laws recently won by citizens in San Francisco and Oakland would be
invalidated by the ACA, and Los Angeles’ strong ordinance would be severely weakened. In
contrast, CPR would allow these local ordinances to remain in effect.

The ACA Poison Pill would invalidate CPR; if the ACA gets more votes, the
net effect will be no campaign finance reform at all.

In 1988, when California voters were presented with two competing finance measures, they
voted for both and we ended up with no reform at all. California cannot afford to repeat this
experience.

The ACA contains an explicit provision that states that if it gets the most votes, all other
campaign finance measures on the ballot would be "null and void in their entirety." This
means that even if all the major provisions of the ACA are thrown out by the courts, the CPR
Initiative would still not go into effect.

If, on the other hand, CPR gets the most votes, the ACA would go into effect to the extent
possible: a built-in double-standard. Please read the Poison Pill provision for yourself. This
section of the ACA Initiative text is reproduced below verbatim. The CPR Initiative contains
no poison pill.

Text of the CalPERG/ACA Poison Pill:

SEC 63. Effective Date
This law shall become effective November 6, 1996. In the event that this
measure and another measure or measures relative to campaign finance
reform in this state shall appear on the state wide general election ballot on
November 5, 1996, the provisions of these other measures shall be deemed to
be in conflict with this measure. In the event that this measure shall receive a
greater number of affirmative votes, the provisions of this measure shall
prevail in their entirety and the provisions of the other measure or measures
shall be null and void in their entirety. In the event that the other measure
or measures shall receive a greater number of affirmative votes, the
provisions of this measure shall take effect to the extent permitted by law.

updated 7/2/96
