VETERANS

| gmt FOR
DOLE

30B DOLE - A VETERAN LEADER

Weil acquainted ‘with veterans’ needs and the Department of Veterans Affairs, Bob Dole
spent 39 months recovering from massive injuries received while leading a platoon of the
10th Mountain Division in World War {I. He was awarded the Bronze Star with V device

and two Purple Hearts. While championing fiscal responsibility, Bob Dole insisted on
fair and equitable funding for veterans’ programs, and he steadfastly resisted efforts to
play partisan politics with these critical issues. A former veterans’ service officer, he

speaks out forcefully on the nations’ continuing obligation to provide for those who have
been disabled in military service. Bob Dole will continue close cooperation with veterans

service organizations and grassroots veterans groups.

As Senate Majority Leader, Bob Dole-

Insisted that veterans’ compensation increases and pensions not be shortchanged.

Protected the veterans’ health care budget from the deep cuts experienced by most
other domestic programs.

Made veterans’ educational benefits, such as the GI Bill, a top priority; he himself
completed his education using similar benefits. .

Pledged not to rest until there is a fullest possible accounting of the MIAs and POWs
in Vietnam and Laos. Initiated and passed a Senate resolution to display the
POW/MIA flag in the Capitol Rotunda until that accounting has taken place.

Supported prompt resolution of the questions surrounding veterans’ exposure to
Agent Orange and ionizing radiation.

Endorsed repeal of the Wamer Amendment which left Atomic Veterans ‘vith no legal
remedies.

Supported ettorts to improve opportunities for veterans to start, own, and operate
businesses. Fle endorsed efforts to upgrade current services and programs to provide
comprehensive assistance to veterans starting their own businesses.

Maintained the development of programs to address the unique health care needs of
our women veterans.

Gave high recognition to the bravery and devotion to duty of all our nation’s veterans.

Authorized and paid for by Dole For President, Inc., Robert Lighthizer, Treasurer
810 First Street, Northeast * Suite 300 * Washington, D.C. 20002 « (202) 414-6400
