injured people not at fault, based on the injured's legal status rather than the facts of the accident.
We join Consumer Action, United Policyholders and numerous labor unions in recommending a
NO vote.

County, Local & City Measures

IX. More Taxes Not the Answer
County Measure A (Parks & Recreation) Vote NO
L.A. City Referendum Ordinance K (Parks & Recreation) Vote NO

L.A. County needs more and well-maintained parks and beaches for the public, but again,
why tax homeowners 1 billion, 69 million dollars instead of big business profits? Also, nothing in
either of these measures prioritizes inner city parks where the need is greatest and where the
majority of homeowners live. Most of the projects outlined in these measures are standard park
maintenance and should be paid for through the normal budgeting process.

Measure AA (Community College Assessment) : Vote NO

This assessment to improve deteriorating building, lighting and landscaping conditions at
the nine community colleges would cost single family homes $12 per year. Big businesses
receives the benefits of an educated work force. They should pay for it.

Measure BB (K-12 School Building) Vote NO

This is a massive $2.5 billion bond measure with unknown costs to homeowners, lots of
profit-making for builders and bankers, no corporate profit taxes, and no chance of better pay for
teachers and staff to educate our children. It is the state’s responsibility to fund public education.
But because California state politicians refuse to tax corporations, they are trying to dump this
responsibility on impoverished homeowners and renters. 4

X. Stop the Erosion of Civil Service Protections
County Measure C (Civil Service Exemptions) Vote NO
L.A. City Charter Amendment J. (More Civil Service Exemptions) Vote NO

Measure C increases the number of jobs considered “unclassified.” It would eliminate civil
service protections for these positions, deny them union representation, cancel the right of
workers to transfer from unclassified jobs back to civil service jobs, and allow management to hire
political favorites outside civil service rules. Amendment J does the same thing at the city level.

It goes even farther than Measure C in making it impossible for city employees to work up
through the ranks to higher paid jobs. L.A. already has far too many unclassified, unprotected
workers. Vote NO on both measures. , of) eae ey
