OUR DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSMAN, TONY BEILENSON,
IS RETIRING FROM CONGRESS AFTER THIS YEAR.

Tony Beilenson wants a Democratic leader to
succeed him with the integrity, independence and
experience to stand up to Newt Gingrich and fight
for middle class families.

That's why he’s supporting Brad Sherman.

BRAD SHERMAN

Democratic leaders agree:
Brad Sherman has the experience
and integrity to win in November.

Our Democratic leaders have united behind Brad
Sherman. Congressman Tony Beilenson, in
endorsing Brad Sherman, calls him “a man of
integrity and independence.”

Brad Sherman is also supported by Senators
Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer,
Representatives Henry Waxman and Howard
Berman, Assembly members Richard Katz,
Barbara Friedman and Sheila Kuehl, Supervisor
Zev Yaroslavsky, and Council members Laura
Chick and Michael Feuer.

They support Brad because he has a proven
record of leadership. While on the Board of
California Common Cause, Brad Sherman was a
leading voice for political reform. As a member of
the State Board of Equalization Brad Sherman
wrote the state tax codes to encourage high-wage
manufacturing and studio jobs. He led the fight
against Pete Wilson’s unfair “Snack Tax,” and

stopped foreign-owned multi-national corporations

from raiding $2 billion from California taxpayers.

WILL TAKE ON NEWT GINGRICH.

Brad Sherman
will fight for middie class families.

As a member of Congress, we can count on Brad
Sherman to put out communities and families first.
A CPA and tax policy expert, Brad will oppose
Republican plans to increase taxes for middle
class families while cutting taxes for wealthy
special interests.

Brad Sherman will fight to protect Medicare and
Social Security from unfair fee increases and
service cuts. He supports the federal student loan
program. He will defend the Santa Monica
Mountains from Republican efforts to sell them off
to developers. He will oppose Republican plans to
gut federal clean air and water standards.

Brad Sherman is endorsed by California’s largest
police officer organization because he supports
the federal crime bill putting 100,000 more police
on America’s streets. Brad Sherman will vote to
uphold the assault weapons ban.

On March 26,
vote for the Democrat who will
take on Newt Gingrich - and win.

BRAD SHERMAN

FOR UNITED STATES CONGRESS

