fully addresses the rippling effects of the CEO's discriminatory action. It also more effectively
communicates that discrimination against any Asian American is intolerable, and not just discrimination
against this individual. ’

Finally, some types of discrimination are levied at entire groups so it makes sense to

compensate the entire group. An example would be the Jim Crow laws that pervaded the American
South for nearly one hundred years. Designed to maintain a racial caste system after the demise of
slavery and the passage of the Thirteenth, Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments, Jim Crow laws
denied African Americans the right to vote, prohibited interracial marriages and imposed strict racial
segregation in schools, courtrooms, restaurants, hotels, theaters, parks, trains and buses. Enforcing
these laws through fear and violence, lynching parties and rioting mobs murdered thousands of African
Americans. Since Jim Crow applied to all African Americans, Jim Crow brutalized all African
Americans. Where the harm is directed at an entire group, justice requires compensation directed at
the entire group.

DISTRIBUTIVE JUSTICE Another fundamental tenet of the American conception of justice is
that where resources and opportunities are limited, they should be distributed in a just manner. We
find it offensive if any group perpetually controls limited resources or opportunities, consistently
excluding others from enjoying these important benefits. For example, sometimes public school
districts create a special elementary school with innovative curricula, exceptional teachers and
expensive materials like computer and science labs. Everyone's taxes help fund the school but, because
the number of students must be limited, not everyone's child can attend. Since the quality of a child's
early education profoundly affects her opportunities later in life, it would be unjust to only allow White
children to attend the school. An affirmative action program can insure that the students attending the
elementary school reflect the heterogeneity of the whole community. Affirmative action policies both
help to distribute new resources and opportunities in a just manner, as well as help to correct previously
unjust distributions of resources and opportunities.

SOCIAL UTILITY Reducing inequality and poverty promotes our society's general well-
being. If given the choice, who wouldn't prefer living in a nation where poverty and oppression were
unknown? Affirmative action is one tool for making this choice a reality. Affirmative action programs
in education, recruitment and hiring help expand the pool of qualified candidates who will become
tomorrow's teachers, scientists and political leaders. This becomes especially critical when we look
towards the future and consider where the United States will be in ten years, twenty years, or fifty
years. The rest of the globe is undergoing rapid transformation and many countries are becoming
increasingly competitive with us in all areas of technology, commerce and intellectual development.
White women and people of color make up 66% of our population and it is in everyone's best interest
to recognize and nurture their talents. If we limit, and even eliminate, opportunities for men of color
and women of every color, how can we hope to compete with the rest of the world? It just doesn't
make sense to depend on 33% of the country to generate 90% of the new inventions, 90% of the
scholarship, 90% of the political leadership. Affirmative action is a necessary policy for ensuring that
we do not lose the contributions of millions of people to this country's future.

Diversity Affirmative action recognizes that diversity is an inherent good that helps combat
the all too human tendency to adopt narrow, parochial ideas about the world and the types of people

Presented by the
UCLA School of Law Affirmative Action
Outreach, Education & Organizing Project
For More Infermation, Please E-Mail Us at "Mattson@Law3.Law.UCLA.Edu"
& Visit Our Affirmative Action Homepage at "htt p://www.law.ucla.edu/Class/Archive/CivAA/" 4
