The term affirmative action refers to several different kinds of programs and policies. Every
program and policy shares the broad goal of seeking to provide opportunities to members of a group,
but the programs do not all look alike. The design of a particular program will vary according to
which goals, discussed in the previous section, it is intended to achieve and whether it is intended to
operate in the context of outreach, recruitment, admissions, hiring, promotion, or retention. The
context for the program will depend, in part, on the age and experience level of the targeted program
participant. Inequities do not affect all individuals at the same stage in life.

CHILDHOOD

Studies show that Black babies die at nearly twice the rate of White babies in California.* To
reverse this trend, the California legislature and the Department of Health Services, in conjunction with
an advisory committee of Black leaders, have funded projects aimed at reducing Black infant mortality
in Watts, the East Bay, San Joaquin, and West Oakland. This is an example of an early outreach
program.

Another early outreach program targets the mothers of babies who are at high risk of being born
with low birthweight. Low birthweight babies often require medical attention in California's neonatal
intensive care units. Currently, California spends over $250 million annually in Medi-Cal costs for.
neonatal intensive care. Estimates show that every dollar spent on prenatal care saves over $3 in
medical expenses for unhealthy babies. The Babycal program is an early outreach program designed
to reach ‘high risk' mothers, including Blacks, Latinas, low-income women, teenagers, and single
women. Baby-Cal provides information about the behaviors and health practices that are particularly
important during pregnancy, including avoiding drugs and tobacco and focusing on eating right.

Once a child grows old enough to attend elementary school, various programs exist to
encourage White girls and children of color to take an interest in their studies. For example, college
students work with elementary schools that are predominantly Chicano and Latino providing academic
assistance, after-school arts and crafts, private tutoring, and educational field trips. One program
targets elementary school students who live in Watts; student volunteers provide academic support,
cultural enrichment at a community center, and on-campus tutoring.

ADOLESCENCE.

Once in junior high and high school, most students are exposed to a variety of distractions from
their school work while simultaneously gaining more responsibility over the shape of their future
academic careers. Many are also exposed to stereotypical notions about what they can and cannot
achieve in the future. For example, studies show that girls receive significantly less attention from

? California Black Health Leadership Committee Report

: "BabyCal Public Relations Handout,” Department of Health Services, LCT Public Relations 1994.

Presented by the
UCLA School of Law Affirmative Action
Outreach, Education & Organizing Project
For More Information, Please E-Mail Us at "Mattson@Law3.!aw.UCLA.Edu"
& Visit Our Affirmative Action Homepage at "http://www.law.ucla.edu/Class/Archive/CivAA/" 6
