(2) Require local
governments to minimize their mobilehome
park rent control measures by allowing annual
rent increases equal to the cost of living and
require local governments to phase out rent
control administration, cn a space by space
basis, upon the sale, transfer or sublease of
any mobilehome.

(3) Prohibit enactment of
any new mobilehome park rent control or rent
stabilization law by any local government or
by the State of California.

(c) This Measure is not intended,
nor shall it be construed, to deprive any
mobilehome owner, tenant or mobilehome
park owner of any constitutional rights.

This is the real purpose of the Initaitive, which
effectively pre-empts all local governments from
protecting their citizens as they see fit.

Again, the word for this complete ban upon local
legislation can only be: Pre-emption.

This Measure is intended to ensure the
unrestricted ability to raise rents. .In the process,
many mobilehome residents may suffer the loss
of their property. It is debatable as to just how
“constitutional” such a result would be.

Note: Beginning at this point, the Initiative describes how the changes in the law shall actually read:

SECTION | 3: AMENDMENT OF
CHAPTER 1 OF DIVISION 2 OF
CALIFORNIA CIVIL CODE:
DEFINITIONS

Chapter 1 of Part 2 of Division 2 of the
California Civil Code is hereby amended as
follows by adding new Section 798.13, as
follows:

798.13 As used in this part, the
following terms have the following meanings:

(a) “Tenant” means a homeowner
as defined in Section 798.9 of this Chapter.

(b) A “Qualified Tenant,” means
any tenant who, as of the date of application,
and during any period while receiving a rental
assistance subsidy, satisfies all of the following
requirements:

Note that this Initiative, if passed, shall become a
part of the existing Mobilehome Residency Law

This definition is only made necessary because
the Initiative uses “tenant” instead of
“homeowner.” The reason? To hide the truth
about the realities of mobilehome living trom the
casual reader of the Initiative. If the Initiative
was not intended to be deceptive, it would have
used “homeowner” from the start.

Only those homeowners who meet the 4-part test
described in this definition can qualify for the
Tent assistance.

PAGE A-5
