NO ON PROP 215 ‘TALKING POINTS

Marijuana use is not limited to AIDS, cancer or glaucoma as the initiative promoters
imply. The initiative states that marijuana can be legally used “for any other illness for
which marijuana provides relief.” This would include a simple headache, upset
stomach, stress or any minor ailment.

It allows anyone, including minors, felons or even jail inmates to smoke, possess
or cultivate unlimited quantities of marijuana with the approval of any physician.

The approval to use and grow marijuana can be verbal. No written prescription is
required, neither is a medical examination.

There are no restrictions as to where marijuana can legally be smoked or grown. This
initiative will legalize marijuana smoking in public places or in the work place. It could
be grown in backyards or next to school yards.

People would be legally allowed to smoke marijuana in public places or in the
workplace. There are no restrictions to deal with the problems of second hand smoke.
The Ainerican Medical Association, American Cancer Society and American Glaucoma
Society are all on record against smoking marijuana for medical purposes.

The California Medical Association is on record in opposition to Prop 215

Possession of a small amount of marijuana in the state of California is a “traffic ticket”
offense punishable by a fine of $100. No one, healthy or sick, is being jailed for this
offense. The real problem with this initiative is that it would be used as a defense by
drug dealers operating large scale drug supermarkets like the “Cannabis Buyers Club”
in San Francisco.

Proposition 215 is far more radical than the-1995-Vasconcellos bill (AB 1529) which
passed the legislature and was vetoed by the governor.

It is different in two important respects:

1. The Vasconcellos bill limited the use of marijuana to the treatment of AIDS, cancer,
glaucoma or multiple sclerosis. The initiative adds the words “or any other illness for
which marijuana provides relief! and that could be headaches, stress, a sore neck or
just about anything.

2. The Vasconcellos bill required a “written prescription” for marijuana -- this initiative
does not.

This initiative was written by Dennis Peron, a drug dealer and operator of the Cannabis
Buyers Club. It has been financed by New York billionaire George Soros and his
Drug Policy Foundation which advocates legalizing a wide range of illegal drugs,
including marijuana.

75% of the more than one million dollars raised to promote Prop 215 has come from
drug legalization advocates who do not live in California.

