FRIENDSO OF SUNSET PARK
Expansion of Tragedies hit Sunset Park

Preferential On Sunday, June 30th, Sunset Park residents were shocked by a fatal hit and run acci-
dent at 16th and Ocean Park Blvd. Less than a week later, Pearl Street residents were wit-

Permit Parking ness to a bizarre and brutal attack. Welding an ax and trying to pour gasoline on them, a

man attacked and seriously injured a woman and child on Pearl Street. Acting quickly,

Zone Friends of Sunset Park sponsored a free counseling session headed by Dr. Lois Andrews,
chairwoman of the Los Angeles County Psychological Association Disaster Response Team.

The 1600 and 1700 blocks of Oak fi Held at Mt. Olive Lutheran Church, the confidential and private counseling session helped
Street have petitioned for permit parking. residents deal with and understand their reactions to the events they witnessed. Dr.
City staff recommended that the Envi- Andrews also made herself available with private counseling sessions for interested parties
ronmental Impact Report (EIR) study affected by the incidents.
include a larger area (Oak on the north,
23" on the east, Ashland on the south, Friends of Sunset Park volunteers followed this up by replacing grass on the three Pearl
and Euclid on the west). Permit Street lawns damaged

parking experience shows that there in the attacked. All who

is usually “a spill over onto other participated agreed that
blocks” which occurs once the streets it felt really good to
are posted. help their neighbors.

Merrihew’s Sunset
Gardens generously
contributed grass seed
and soil. Santa
Monica’s Environmen-

Each block will be included only if
they complete the petition for permit
parking. Approving the larger area
for permit parking means that if
other streets in the district experience

parking problems they will not have tal Programs Division
to wait for another City Council helped by disposing of
hearing (a process which can take 2-3 the gasoline soaked soil
years). and grass.

All residents living in the new dis- The spontaneous

trict will be advised by the City of — _ support of neighbors,
Santa Monica of the upcoming date Photo left to right: Richard Kuyama, Ed Marusich, John Ezell, Monet the city and local busi-
of the City Council hearing. For Lemon, Ed Wortz, Kelly Olsen, Karen Comegys, ness working together
questions about permit parking call Regula Ziegler, Don Glenn, and Joan Charles. helped heal the

Doug Biagi at 458-8291. For ques- wounds of tragedy in
tions about the EIR call Paul Foley at the Sunset Park neigh-
458-8585: borhood.

Q and A about Permit Parking
How do we go about getting permit parking on our street?

A petition with signatures from at least two-thirds of the dwelling units from the entire block wanting permit parking, AND one-half of the
abutting property must be submitted to the City. The petition is verified and a parking study is started. When the parking study is completed,
either: 1) the area is not approved for preferential parking and the residents are informed why they did not qualify, or, 2) the area is approved
and a staff report is written recommending that the City Council direct the City Attorney to draft an ordinance, and the Planning Staff to
complete an Environment Assessment. When these two steps are completed, the residents will be notified of the scheduled City Council
Meeting when the first reading of the ordinance will take place (public input is welcome at this meeting). If the permit parking is approved
by the City Council, a second reading of the ordinance occurs at the next City Council meeting. A period of thirty days is then given for City
crews to put up the parking restriction signs and for the residents to purchase the parking permits.

Ifa district is created before a petition for permit parking has been filed by a block, the block must follow the petition process. Upon receipt
of the petition by the City and verification, all residents will be notified and given time for the purchase of permits before any restrictive
parking signs will appear.

How do residents purchase permits?

To purchase a resident permit, a resident will be required to show a California Vehicle Registration from the DMV and have no outstanding
parking citations. You will also need proof of residency which includes: a picture ID (driver’s license, California I.D., passport etc.) AND
one other form of identification which shows name and current address (utility bill, etc.).

A vehicle registration is not required for a visitor permit since it may be used on more than one vehicle.
How many permits can each dwelling unit purchase?
Each house or apartment may purchase up to three (3) resident permits and two (2) visitors permits.

What if I'm having a special event at my house which would
require more than my two visitor permits?

Special arrangements may be made through the Parking and Traffic Engineering Division at 458-8291 for up to 25 visitor passes.

What if all the available parking is occupied on my street?
How far away from my house is the permit valid?

If you are unable to park on your designated street due to an influx of vehicles, you may park within a two (2) block radius if that street is
designated for permit parking.

How much do permits cost?

Resident or visitor permits currently cost $15.00 per permit per year.

JOIN FRIENDSO OF SUNSET PARK

