AGRICULTURE

THE NATURAL LAW PARTY envisions a
time when American farmers will farm in full
accord with the laws of nature, fully utilizing
nature's creativity to yield abundant, healthy
food, while protecting the environment and en-
suring a vigorous, diversified, sustainable agri-
cultural economy.

THE PROBLEM

The future of agriculture depends on its
sustainability—that is, the ability of agricultural
policies and practices to preserve and strengthen
the farming economy, ecology, and community
for future generations.

The recently passed Federal Agricultural Im-
provement and Reform Act of 1996 (FAIR) has
been heralded as a major change of direction for
U.S. agriculture. But it has left many wonder-
ing whether crucial, fundamental changes have
really been made in agricultural policy, and
whether FAIR is fair—especially for small fam-
ily farms and for the environment. FAIR does
not go far enough to ensure agricultural prac-
tices that are sustainable—financially, environ-
mentally, and socially.

1. Financially unsustainable

¢ Recent projections of increasing interna-
tional demand for food, coupled with rap-
idly shrinking global food reserves, suggest
that consumers will pay even more for food
in the future and that poor countries will re-
ceive less U.S. food aid. The 1995 market
prices of wheat, corn, and other grains
reached near record highs in many cases, and
international food reserves have dropped to
their lowest level since 1960. Global grain
consumption has outdistanced production in
seven of the past nine years—a trend that
will be further fueled by China’s recent tran-
sition from a grain exporter to the world’s
second largest grain importer. Despite these

30

realities, current U.S. farm programs restrict
America’s agricultural production (for ex-
ample, 36 million acres have been taken out
of production) while encouraging competi-
tors to plant more [1,2].

* In 1994, the federal government spent $10.3
billion on subsidies to farmers [3]. The new
farm subsidy program of FAIR, although
formalizing the phasing out of government
subidies over the next seven years, contin-
ues to favor the nation’s largest farms.

¢ From 1988 to 1993, even the most economi-
cally profitable farms averaged only a 3-5%
return on stockholder equity; food manufac-
turers, on the other hand, averaged 16.5%
[4]. Clearly, farmers receive little of the
“value-added” profit accruing to food manu-
facturers that process farm goods for the
market. Farmers—especially those working
small family farms—and their surrounding
communities cannot survive without diver-
sification of farm activities that keeps more
of these profits close to home.

2. Environmentally unsustainable

¢ Conventional agriculture erodes and de-
grades soil [5]; it requires large-scale use of
chemical pesticides and fertilizers that pol-
lute groundwater and are unhealthy for con-
sumers and farmers. Annual pesticide use per
acre on certain major crops nearly doubled
from 1964 to 1992, to a total of 574 million
pounds [6]. These agrichemicals pose real
threats to water quality, wildlife, and human
health. Recent scientific research indicates
that common pesticides are estrogen mim-
icking and implicates them in the high inci-
dence of breast cancer and prostate cancer
in America and in the striking decline in male
sperm count. Yet FAIR continues to sup-
port chemically intensive cropping practices.

AGRICULTURE PLATFORM

In an attempt to protect the environment, the
U.S. government last year paid farmers $1.7
billion to set aside environmentally sensitive
land [7]. These programs are inadequate,
however, since they indirectly encourage
farmers to maximize production on remain-
ing land through large-scale use of chemical
pesticides to combat weeds and insects—
thus promoting environmental degradation.

Federal agencies have decided that a few
genetically engineered plant and animal
products (such as recombinant bovine
growth hormone—rBGH—which boosts
milk production) are safe and may be com-
mercialized, despite the concerns of some
scientists. Virtually all European nations
have banned rBGH and other hormone treat-
ment in livestock, but in the U.S. it is stan-
dard practice to inject female hormones into
poultry and male hormones into beef to en-
sure maximum weight (and thus maximum
profit) at sale. Many products similar to
rBGH are under review. In addition, many
foods that have been genetically engineered
with pig, virus, or bacteria genes are already
being sold in supermarkets. Yet these ge-
netically altered foods are not labeled as
such—nor do federal agencies intend to la-
bel them. "

Some leading scientists believe that alter-
ation of DNA—the most fundamental level
of plant and animal physiology—is likely to
have profound negative impacts on the en-
vironment and human life [8]. For example,
altered genes from cultivated food crops may
be released to wild relatives, thus compro-
mising the “gene pool” upon which breed-
ers of domestic crops must draw to enhance
resistance to pests and disease. Unlike other
products, a genetically engineered organism
that has been released into the environment
can never be recalled. Alarmingly, even or-
ganizations that support sustainable agricul-
ture are now embracing genetically engi-

neered seeds as a means to improve crop
yields and increase profitability.

¢ The explosion of factory hog farms, cattle
feedlots, and poultry operations during the
last few years has increased livestock con-
centrations, confinement housing, and sepa-
ration of animals from their natural environ-
ments. As a result, these animals are more
prone to disease; therefore, they need more
antibiotics; and consequently, their wastes
become a health hazard instead of a natural
aid to soil fertility.

¢ Inaddition, to ensure maximum weight gain
in their livestock, farmers commonly inject
antibiotics into healthy animals. Many sci-
entists suspect that this practice helps create
bacteria and viruses that are resistant or im-
mune to antibiotics. Since antibiotic-resis-
tant germs have become a major health prob-
lem in America, this practice should be
stopped immediately.

3. Socially unsustainable

¢ Experts feel that conventional agriculture has
led to “decaying communities [in] rural
America that continue to lose population,
business, and even their reason to exist as
farms consolidate into larger units and farm
families leave” [9]. Small towns are a reser-
voir of enterprise and traditional values that
Americans cherish, and they should not be
lost.

° Corporate-owned factory hog farms, cattle
feedlots, and poultry operations, as well as
the corporations that supply them, are be-
coming increasingly vertically integrated,
pushing family farms and_ rural
agribusinesses out of business and reducing
farmers to corporate laborers.

¢ The challenges of farming today are mak-
ing new demands on farmers and their fami-
lies. The farmer must take into account many
complex factors in making production deci-

31

