Proposition 207

Frivolous Lawsuit Limitation Act

Date:
File No:

dune 15, 1995
SAS5RFO005

The Attorney General of California has prepared the following title
and summary of the chief purpose and points of the proposed
measure:

ATTORNEYS. FEES. RIGHT TO NEGOTIATE. FRIVOLOUS
LAWSUITS. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Declares this measure to be
In conflict with the “Lawyer Contingent Fes Limitation Act” initia-
tive and similar measures. Provides the right to negotiate amount
of attomeys' fees, whather fixed, hourly or contingent, shall not be
restricted. Prohibits attorney from charging/collecting excessive
or unconscionable fees. Authorizes caurt to impose sanctions
upon attorney who files a lawsuit or pleading which is completely
without morit or filed colely to harass oppasing party. Prohibits
sanctioned attorney from collacting fees for case. Requires State
Bar to recommend appropriate discipline for attomeys who have
repeated sanctions. Summary of estimate by Legislative Analyst
and Director of Finance of fiscat impact on state and local
govemments: Possible increased, but insignificant, costs to state
and local governments.

FRIVOLOUS LAWSUIT LIMITATION ACT
SECTION1, TITLE

This initiative shall be known and may be cited as the “Frivolous
Lawsuit Limitation Act.”

SECTION2, FINDINGS AND DECLARATIONS

The People of the State of California find and deciare:

(a) Frivolous lawsuits and frivolous defenses clog our courts,
cost taxpayers money, and delay the legal process.

{o) Lawyers who file frivolous lawsuits or frivolous defenses
violate their ethical obligations as officers of the court and should
be punished.

a Lawyers who file trivolous lawsuits or defenses should not
be 5

(d) Injured people who have legitimate tegal claims have the
same right to contract freely with the attorney of their choice as do
corporations and wealthy individuals.

(a) People with legitimate claims need to be against
some attomeys who are able to manipulate the system so that
they collect enormous fees for almost no work.

{f) The most effective way to preserve the rights of consumers,
corporations, and smal} businesses to contract freely while at the
same time protecting them from unscrupulous attorneys is to
ajlow clients to ask the courts to decide whether an attomey's fee
is excessive.

THEREFORE, THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
DO ENACT AS FOLLOWS:

09/09/96

Section 6089.5 is added to the Business and Professions Code,
to read:

6089.5(a) ff, after using the notice and procedures contained
in Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7, a court determines that
an attomey or law firm has filed a frivolous lawsuit or a frivolous
answer or other respansive pleading to a lawsuit, the court shall

appropriate sanctions upon the attomey or law firm.

(b) (1) For purposes of thia section, a frivolous lawsuit or
frivolous answer to other responsive pleading to a fawsuit is one
that is either (A) totally and completely without marit, or (B) filed
for the sole purpose of harassing an opposing party.

(2) For purposes of this section, an appropriate sanc-
tion is one that is sufficient to deter repetition of this conduct or
comparable conduct by others similarly situated,

(ec) No attorney against whom sanctions have been im-
posed pursuant to subsection (a) shall collect or retain any fee for
services performed in connection with a lawsuit in which the court
has imposed sanctions under this section and a final judgment
has been entered and all appeals have been exhausted, unless
the attorney can demonstrate that he or she has been misled by
the misrepresentation or mistake of the client with regard to one
or more facts material to the case.

(a) Aftara final judgment hae been entered and ail appeals
have been exhausted, a court that has imposed sanctions upon
an attorney or law firm pursuant to eubsection (a) of this section
shall notify the State Bar. The notification shail include the
sanctions order, any written findings related therato, including the
name or names of the attomeys involved, and those portions of
the record relevant to the order. The attorney or law firm against
whom sanctions have been imposed shail reimburse the court for
all expenses incurred in reporting to the State Bar pursuant to this
section.

(e) Upon notification from the court that sanctions have
been imposed and the matter has been raferred to the State Bar,
the attorney and his or her jaw firm shail immediataly notify the
client or clients in writing that sanctions have heen imposed for
the attorney’s conduct of the case.

(f) if the State Bar determines that it has received three
Notifications of sanctions against the same attorney pursuant to
subsection (a) within the past five years, after considering all
relevant circumstances, the State Bar shall recommend appropri-
ate discipline, inoluding but not limited to suspension or dishar-
ment, to the Supreme Court.

(g) Reprovals and other disciplinary measures taken by
ro yg Bar pursuant to this section shall be a matter af public

bee of Clvil Procedure section 128.7()) is amended as follows:
7) Fhe 7 i Fag a ‘ sich +

11:25 TX/RX NO.0521 P.002
