NO ON 215 * DON'T LEGALIZE MARIJUANA

Proposition 215
— A Dangerous Hoax

Proposition 215 is entitled “Medical Use
of Marijuana”. Promoters of this initiative claim
that it will provide for the “compassionate use”
of crude marijuana for people with cancer, AIDS
and glaucoma, but, the fine print of the initiative
allows the use of marijuana foe “any other
illness for which marijuana provides relief.”

This initiative is a
dangerous hoax ... and
here are the reasons:

1. “MEDICAL USE” IS A SMOKE-
SCREEN FOR LEGALIZATION OF MARIJUANA.
The “Medical Use” Initiative virtually legalizes
possession, cultivation and use of unlimited

uantities of marijuana for anyone — including
pe Nb and felons. The Initiative says:

“Section 11357 (criminal
penalties), relating to the pose of
marijuana, and Section 11358 (criminal
penalties), relating to the cultivation of
marijuana, shall not apply fo a patient, or
to a patient's primary caregiver, who
possesses or cultivates marijuana for the
personal medical purposes of the patient
upon the written or oral recommendation
or approval of a physician.”

No written prescription is required.
The physician may give seinen be
marijuana use verbally. The user does not have
to have AIDS, cancer or glaucoma, only a
“recommendation” by a physician for “any
illness for which marijuana provides relief.”

The “illness” could be stress, headaches
... or anything else. Anyone with “medical
permission” could smoke, grow or possess
marijuana under this initiative. This includes
minors, parolees or even jail inmates.

2. MARIJUANA IS NOT A MEDICINE.
The Food and Drug Administration, the Dru
Enforcement Administration and the U.S. Public
Health Services have rejected smoking crude
marijuana as a medicine.

There are thousands of
studies available documenting the harmful
physical and psychological effects of smokin
marijuana. The hand consequences part
but are not limited to: premature cancer,
addiction, coordination and perception
impairment, a number of mental disorders
including depression, hostility and increased
aggressiveness, general apathy, memory loss,
reproductive disabilities, impairment fo the
immune system, numerous airway injuries and
other serious problems.

Major medical and health
organizations, as well as the vast majority of
nationally recognized expert medical doctors,
scientists and researchers have not accepted
smoking marijuana for medical use. These
organizations include: the American Medical
Association, the American Cancer Son
National Multiple Sclerosis Association, the
American Glaucoma Association, American
Academy of Ophthalmology, National Eye
Institute, National Cancer Institute, National
Institute for Neurological Disorders and Stroke,
National Institute of Dental Research, and the
National Institute on Allergy and Infectious
Diseases.

Citizens for a DRUG-FREE California — NO on 215, a Project of Citizens for Economic Progress,
Sheriff Brad Gates, Chairman, 4901 Birch Street, Newport Beach, CA 92660 « I.D. No. 960845
