RICHARD J. COHEN, M.D., F.A.C.P.

3838 CALIFORNIA STREET
SAN Francisco, CA 94118

HEMATOLOGY MEDICAL ONCOLOGY
INTERNAL MEDICINE

“Marijuana helps to decrease the misery
and pain of terminally ill patients.”

Asa practicing Medical Oncologist, a specialist in the treatment of cancer, I strongly
support Proposition 215, the initiative to permit medical use of marijuana.

Over the past 20 years, I have managed a great many cases in which the use of
marijuana has enabled cancer patients to tolerate the chemotherapy drugs essential for
their survival by reducing or eliminating their nausea and vomiting. This has led to an
improvement in the response rates and survival in many cancers. Marijuana helps by per-
mitting patients to complete their full courses of chemotherapy regimens. Too often,
patients drop out and refuse their therapy because of the toxic and unpleasant side ef
fects — an unfortunate accompaniment to the use of most anticancer agents.

For many such patients, marijuana has aided in improving appetite and general
nutrition, leading to an improved quality of life. It has also helped to lift patients out of
depression, permitting greater family interactions during their declining days.

There is no question but that marijuana helps to decrease the misery and pain of
terminally ill patients. It is also especially useful in helping morphine and similar pain-
relieving narcotics work more effectively, and in a more prolonged fashion, to alleviate
pain caused by bone, liver, and other organ metastases (i.e., tumor spread).

These valuable medical attributes of marijuana clearly indicate that it is a proven
safe and effective medication that should be available, under a physician’s approval, for
the care and treatment of patients with serious diseases such as cancer and AIDS. Most
importantly, as Proposition 215 declares, marijuana must be available for medical use
without legal jeopardy or hazard to either prescribing physician or recipient patient.

CALIFORNIANS FOR MEDICAL RIGHTS/YES ON PROP. 215 * 1250 SIXTH ST., #202 * SANTA MONICA, CA 90401
