I think a lot of people would agree there is an empty feeling in this campaign so
far. One reason is that none of the other candidates is raising high the banner of
economic expansion and opportunity, like John F. Kennedy did with his promise to “get
this country moving again,” and like Ronald Reagan did when he cut taxes and regulation
and ushered in the longest peacetime expansion in American history.

But there are other reasons for the empty feeling. The fact is the other candidates
on both sides are insiders. And we all know that if the insiders had the answers, they
would have implemented them by now.

I will tell you frankly that any one of the Republicans running now for president
would be a vast improvement on the incumbent. But I believe their vision of what we
can do is narrow, cramped and constricted. They have been in Washington, or in politics,
or both, all of their adult lives. They haven’t been at the center of the entrepreneurial
economy. I have, both as a reporter traveling the world and as a businessman running a
company.

That has been my life.

As so I am not an incrementalist, not a cautious suggester of cautious changes, not
a compromiser with the bully state.

I reject the grim notion of the Washington politicians that America must learn to
make do with less, that the American people have spent too much and now the American
people must pay, that the wagon is heavy and crowded and now is the time to start
throwing people off. And I reject the equally grim notion that the American people must
constantly pay in taxes for the mistakes the politicians make in Washington, such as a
deficit, which despite years of bluster and two of the largest tax hikes in history,
continues to grow.

I see a different reality, an America of vast potential -- greater than anything that
has ever been seen‘before -- waiting to be released . I see an American economy that is
the most innovative and productive and technologically advanced in the world,
hamstrung by high taxes and counter-productive regulation.

We are like the greatest marathon runner in the world, but we’re trying to compete
with two 50-pound cinder blocks chained to our legs. It’s time to remove the dead weight

of Washington, and let the American economy run free.

It’s true that we’re already changing.
