/

A

Q:

Why would Proposition 217 affect local property taxes? I thought this was about
personal income taxes?

A: As part of the fine print in the initiative, there is a formula for dividing new tax revenue.
Proposition 217 could require a city's share of any new property tax revenue to be shared
among all the cities in the county. Right now, each city keeps its share of property tax from
new development.

What's wrong with sharing that money?

A: A new development that brings in additional property tax revenue, also brings
additional costs for services like police and fire protection. Under Proposition 217, a city
could have to share the new income, but shoulder all of the new costs itself.

Let's say a city attracts a new high tech company. The residents of that city pick up the full
tab for police, fire and any other city services which would be needed. But what about any
new property tax revenue brought in by that high tech company? That revenue could

end up being divided between every city in the county. And since a city could find itself
paying out more for necessary services than it takes in, those city residents could wind up
paying higher taxes to cover that deficit while other cities reap the benefits. That's hardly
fair.

A new city would be even worse off. Because the Prop. 217 formula guarantees each

city its current percentage of property tax revenue, a new city could end up turning over all
its property tax money to be divided up among the other cities in the county -- which would
mean the new city would have no choice but tax itself a second time to pay for those cops,
firefighters and other new services, in short, "double taxation"!

Who is "Californians for Jobs, Not More Taxes"?
A: A growing coalition of organizations, businesses and individuals opposed to this unfair
and unwise retroactive tax increase, including the California Taxpayers Association, the

National Federation of Independent Business and the California Chamber of Commerce.

000
