Forbes

FOR PRESIDENT

Steve Forbes’ Presidential Announcement Speech
“A New Conservative Vision”
National Press Club
September 22, 1995

It’s no secret. I am here today to announce that I am running for President of the
United States.

This is, to say the least, an unusual candidacy, and I expect there are a few
skeptics in the room.

But I am throwing my hat into the ring betes hi in full confidence that this campaign
for President can and will succeed.

For the last two decades, I have been working in one of the most entrepreneurial
sectors of American life: magazine publishing. And as any entrepreneur will tell you,
the really big changes -- the quantum leaps -- are made by those who take risks and
challenge conventional wisdom, by those who do something new and unexpected.

This campaign will talk a lot about what entrepreneurship and the new economy
mean to all Americans. I’!I be taking a lot of risks saying what no other candidate is
willing, or dares, to say. I’ll be living what I’m preaching.

Usually candidates come to a race like this after years in either state or federal
government. In the past, that may have been a good thing for the country. But no longer.
Not today.

I am running because I believe this nation needs someone in the White House who
can break the old patterns, someone who can unlock the stranglehold that the political
class has on American life. An outsider who knows first hand, as I do, the promise of the
new economy, who sees how government is dragging down all Americans and is
determined to change it.

I am running because I believe the American people share the same desire for an
end of politics as usual. I believe that they share the same vision of an unshackled future,
a future that embraces all the wonderful opportunities in the new economy.

PO Box 1009 * 1400 Rt. 206 North ¢ Bedminster, New Jersey 07921 * 908-781-5111 © 1-800-820-6300
E-Mail: forbes@forbes96.com * www.forbes96.com

Paid for by Forbes for President Committee, Inc.. Contributions are not deductible as charitable for federal tax purposes.
