10 ways

cures mis-managed care

s all health care professionals know (and wish they could tell you!)

health maintenance organizations (HMOs) and managed care insurers

maximize their profits by limiting the care that patients receive. When you
are denied care or when inadequately trained, low wage workers perform the
duties of health care professionals, Wall Street investors and HMO executives
profit. Since 1990, health care industry profit margins have skyrocketed, soaring

by more than 300 percent.

The California Nurses Association and Prop 103 author Harvey Rosenfield
have placed Prop 216, the Patient Protection Act, on California’s November 1996
ballot to end managed care abuses and restore quality health care you can trust.

Ralph Nader has endorsed Prop 216 as the law “that puts doctors and nurses in
charge of your health care instead of faceless bureaucrats.”

1 Currently, HMOs provide financial
incentives and bonuses for doctors to
withhold treatment for patients.

> The Patient Protection Act BANS bonuses
and financial incentives for providers to deny
patients care.

ye company bureaucrats,
not doctors and nurses, decide your
treatment.

> Prop 216 requires a second opinion by a
doctor who has examined a patient before care
can be denied. Criteria for denial of care must
be in writing and available to patients.

3 Managed care plans put “gag
orders” on doctors and nurses to
prevent them from disclosing treatment
options not covered by the insurer.

> The Patient Protection Act prohibits “gag
orders” on providers.

4 HMOs prohibit doctors and nurses
from speaking out against policies
which are endangering patients.

> Prop 216 prohibits insurers from firing or
punishing health care workers who advocate
in the interests of their patients.

5 CEO stock holdings for just 10
health care executives exceeded
$2.4 billion in 1994, $1 billion more
than the federal government spent on
AIDS research.

> Prop 216 places fees on such excesses to pay
for implementing the Act and for community
emergency care, prevention, and contagious
disease control. Under the Act, fees are levied
on multimillion dollar compensation for
CEOs, and on mergers, restructuring, and
downsizing policies that place communities at

risk, limit consumer choices and reduce quality
of care. Prop 216 won't cost taxpayers a cent.

6 Hospitals are replacing registered
nurses with less skilled workers, a
policy that is putting patients at risk.

> Prop 216 requires that the Department of
Health Services mandate safe staffing levels
for hospitals, nursing homes and other health
care facilities.

T Heath insurers now sell patients’
medical records to third parties without
the consent of the patients.

> The Patient Protection Act prohibits the
disclosure of medical records to third parties
without the patient's consent.

8 Patients who join HMOs and man-
aged care plans today must sign away
their right to go to court if they’re
wrongly refused treatment.

> Prop 216 prohibits HMOs and managed
care plans from forcing patients into secret,
mandatory, binding arbitration as a condi-
tion of health coverage.

9 HMOs operate in secrecy, with virtu-
ally no public scrutiny of their policies
and with no advocate for the consumer.

> The Patient Protection Act establishes an
independent, nonprofit, self-funded consumer
watchdog group that will oversee and evaluate
the quality of services provided by HMOs and
advocate for higher quality care.

10 sicain care has been the most
profitable industry in America this
decade. Profits jumped 40% from
1992-94, and another 20% in 1995.

> Prop 216 prohibits increases in insurance
premiums or other charges unless the need is
justified by the health insurance company.

Public Media Center; coupon photo by Jennifer Saver; all others by Maggie Hallahan, Network Images.

=

For more information, contact:
Consumers and Nurses for Patient
Protection/Yes on 216

1750 Ocean Park Boulevard, Suite 200
Santa Monica, CA 90405
1-310-392-0522

1145 Market Street, Suite 1100
San Francisco, CA 94103
1-800-440-6877

Real Patient Protection
