We now know a great deal about how a child’s brain develops. The political experts are
saying, “He’s not going to talk about how a child’s brain develops.” Yes, I am because
that will drive what the school should be. It should be a major force in planning our
schools. This is the kind of thinking we bring to Washington. The human brain develops
billions of cells before a baby is born. Each cell has its own circuits. When a baby comes
into the world, the brain is a jumble of disconnected circuits waiting to be connected.
Some of these circuits are connected to allow the hear to beat and the baby to breathe, so
on and so forth. A thousand trillion circuits literally unwired. That’s the only number I’ve
ever seen that’s bigger than the national debt.

The love and attention a small child re¢eives determines whether or not a child will tap
his or her potential capacity. I can’t tell you how important it is to love them and hug
them. My biggest concern would be that my grandchildren wouldn’t be able to walk.
Nobody puts them down. Having read this I’m thrilled. Babies either learn how to learn,
or fail to learn how to learn by the time they’re three. If you blindfold a baby for six
months, the baby will be blind for life. The circuits can’t be wired.

Ina baby six months old, the brain weighs 50 percent of what it will weigh as an adult
even though the body weight is 20 percent. Then the brain grows quickly by the time the
child is a few years old to half of his adult life. When a child is six years old, the brain
has grown to 90 percent of its adult life and begins to shut down the unused circuits. Isn’t
it a paradox that’s when we start school? After the circuits are shutting down? These
circuits that represent sounds that form words are wired by the age of one year. A child
learns to think well or poorly of himself by the time he’s 18 months, learns or fails how to
learn by the time he’s three. The words the child hears before the child is 2 impact the
total capacity of the child’s vocabulary.

Isn’t this fascinating? Math and logic take place from birth to four years. The learning
window for music is three to ten years. With this knowledge, it’s obvious that traditional
concepts regarding public education must be radically altered and please listen carefully
to this particularly for disadvantaged children who don’t get all that early attention.

We can, we will and we must solve these problems. That’s the reason I want to be your
president. I didn’t know it, but I’ve been preparing to do this for 40 years. I grew up
having to manage money carefully. I grew up being taught not to waste money, pay cash
for everything and keep money in the bank. I was fortunate enough to be put into an
industry where I had to learn to design, engineer and make work very complex systems
and make them work in a cost-effective manner. Isn’t this what our problem is ?

The only reason I’m here tonight is I want to solve those problems for the great people in
this country. Thank you. Ordinary people in this country are capable of extraordinary
achievements. you know that and I do. There’s nothing we can’t do. Keep in mind, it’s
going to be tough for the next few months, but the same blow that shatters glass, hardens
steel. You’ve been here, you’ve been through the fight and you are hard as steel, and boy,
am I proud of you.
