health and safety laws, civil rights for gays and lesbians, an end to privatization, and reproductive
rights for women.

Unfortunately, the leadership of the Labor Party is not yet ready to give up on the
Democrats. Despite Clinton's support for NAFTA and the deluge of money to his campaign from
big business, the AFL-CIO is pouring $35 million into electing him and other Democrats. Top
Labor Party leaders refuse to break with this giveaway of workers' money. Labor Party leaders
also prevented the party from fielding candidates of its own for the next two years. The question
will be reconsidered at the 1998 convention--a good reason to join your local Labor Party chapter
now and help turn things around!

California Statewide Propositions

I. Affirmative Action Under Attack
Prop. 209 (Eliminates State and Local Affirmative Action Programs) Vote NO

Prop. 209 would outlaw affirmative action in public employment, state colleges and small
businesses with state contracts, and would permit "reasonably necessary" discrimination against
women. Prop. 209 is sponsored by the same rightwing forces that gave us immigrant-bashing
Prop. 187 in 1994, and it is supported by the KKK whose “former” Grand Dragon David Duke
wrote a similar measure while he was in the Louisiana legislature. Prop. 209 is racist; it is sexist;
it scapegoats people of color and women workers for problems created by our dysfunctional
economic system.

We Californians have an historic opportunity to prevent rightwingers from spreading
legalized bigotry to the other 18 states considering similar laws. Join civil rights advocates, labor
unions, feminists, lesbian and gay activists, and every fair-minded voter who believes in equal
opportunity and education for all. Vote NO.

(The Freedom Socialist Party and Radical Women have worked with the L.A. Affirmative
Action Defense Coalition for the last six months to defeat Prop. 209. Please contact the
Coalition at 213-365-1792 if you would like to join in this important work.)

I. Raise California's Minimum Wage
Prop. 210 (Minimum Wage Increase) Vote YES

Prop. 210 will raise the minimum wage to $5/hour on March 1, 1997 and $5.75/hour on
March 1, 1998--raises that are higher and sooner than recent federal increases. 2.1 million
California workers labor at the minimum wage. It has been frozen since 1988 and has dropped in
buying power by 26%.

What’s really needed is a minimum wage of $10/hour with employer paid medical care.
But Prop. 210 will provide some relief for the working poor. It is sponsored by the California
Federation of Labor and-supported-by everybody but the-bosses: Vote-YES. ~ ~ -
