GOLDEN STATE MOBILHOME OWNERS LEAGUE, INC.

P.O. BOX 876, GARDEN GROVE, CALIFORNIA 92642
(714) 826-4071 1-800-888-1727

Ci 41021 MAGNOLIA BOULEVARD, GARDEN GROVE, CALIFORNIA

“A Homeowners Association”

October 16, 1995
Dear interested Party,

The enclosed report, entitled "The Costs of Mobilehome Rent Control Programs in California”,
is being provided courtesy of the Golden State Mobilhome Owners League, Inc. (GSMOL). Formed as
a non-profit corporation in 1962, GSMOL is comprised of some 52,000 California mobilehome
residents. Its primary purpose is to preserve and enhance the mobilehome way of life for its members,
many of whom are elderly or on fixed incomes. Of all the issues faced by mobilehome residents, none
is more critical than preventing exorbitant rent increases which could result in the loss of the substantial
investment which many have in their homes.

GSMOL has long been active in the drafting and passage of local mobilehome rent control
ordinances which regulate mobilehome space rents. As space rents have risen over the years, some
90 local jurisdictions have passed a rent control ordinance, while many others have and will be asked
by their citizens to examine the issue. Whether considering the adoption of an ordinance or confronting
a challenge to its continued existence, local officials are typically exposed to an intense and emotional
debate by both park owners & residents on a number of subjects. Chief among them is the issue of
how much mobilehome rent control shall cost both the local jurisdiction and its taxpayers.

The ability of local governments to separate truth from fiction in answering this question is
critical. Park owners have long claimed that the costs of rent control programs are substantial in an
effort to discourage their passage. Some park owner groups have claimed recently that $45,000,000
is spent annually by California local governments to administer mobilehome rent control. GSMOL has
always claimed that the costs are much lower. However, up to now, no empirical data has existed to
support the claims of either side. At this time, a resource which can provide reliable information, rather
than speculative arguments or mere political rhetoric, is badly needed. In March of 1996, California
voters shall be asked to consider a park owner Initiative which would abolish mobilehome rent control.

GSMOL commissioned Dr. Kenneth K. Baar to prepare the enclosed study for the express
purpose of uncovering the truth about the costs associated with mobilehome rent control. His
publications on rent regulations have been cited frequently in California appellate court opinions. His
study is based on systematic interviews of administrators in each of the jurisdictions that have
mobilehome rent control ordinances. As you will note, the study concludes that the sum total of annual
program costs is actually about $1,400,000 or approximately $18,500 per jurisdiction. Such a finding
illuminates a fundamental truth about mobilehome rent control: that the creation of local rent
protections for some 130,000 mobilehome rent spaces in California will NOT result in excessive nor
unreasonable costs to the jurisdiction or its taxpayers.

Please do not hesitate to contact GSMOL if you have any questions or comments about the
enclosed information. Thank you for your interest.
