AeSOCIATION. FOR ‘CALIFORNIA TORT BERORM
ee RR OEY TE RE

The Association for California Tort Reform

The Association for California Tort Reform is a coalition of citizens, taxpayers,
businesses, local governments, professionals, manufacturers, financial institutions,
insurers, and medical organizations. Founded in 1978, ACTR is the only statewide
association dedicated solely to improving California's civil liability system. It is active
in both the Legislature and the courts, working to reduce the excessive and unwarranted
litigation that drives up the cost of goods and services to all Californians.

The ACTR program operates on four major fronts: research, public and opinion
leader education, legislative lobbying and lawsuit appeals.

Legislative Lobbying. ACTR has brought to the Legislature a sound,
aggressive reform package. Our 1995-96 legislative agenda includes advocating
on behalf of measures to bring punitive damages under control, bring fairness to
the system of allocating damages for negligently-caused business losses, restore
balance to product liability law, reduce expensive employment termination cases,
and encourage alternative dispute resolution.

Research. ACTR research documents the harm lawsuit abuse causes to
taxpayers, businesses, consumers, and professionals and gets it to key
policymakers and opinion leaders. The Association also documents the
campaign contributions made by contingency fee lawyers.

Public and Opinion Leader Education. Since January of 1995, ACTR has
increased its communications activity to an unprecedented level. Editorial
writers, legal, business and political reporters, and key radio and television
contacts have been receiving a heavy flow of relevant news releases, background
sheets, and news clip packages.

Lawsuit Appeals. ACTR's appellate advocacy program is active in the
appellate courts, filing briefs and participating in oral argument on many
significant liability cases. In fact, ACTR is the only organization of its kind that
reviews every case filed in our six state courts of appeal, as well as the
California Supreme Court. The Association filed an amicus brief with the U.S.
Supreme Court in the BMW v. Gore punitive damages case that recently
established improved standards for state judges. Recent judicial triumphs

(over)

1201 K Street, Suite 1150, Sacramento, California 95814, 916-443-4900, Facsimile 916-443-4306
