YES ON

CITIZENS FOR SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS
Ao Reo bet OPP Ms ae oD een Aes
10951 W. PICO BLVD. SUITE 204A * LOS ANGELES, CA 90064 » PHONE (310) 474-9823 » FAX (310) 474-4035 + ID # 921783

UPDATE: CAMPAIGN BEGINS TO PASS THE LA COUNTY
SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS ACT

August 20, 1996

TO: All those interested in the LA County Parks Act on the November ballot
FR: Campaign Headquarters

Dear Friends:

County Parks Measure is Proposition A on November Ballot: In June, the Los Angeles
County Board of Supervisors voted to place the $319 million parks measure on the November county ballot.
We thank all of you who helped develop this important measure, which will be Proposition A the Los Angeles
County Safe Neighborhood Parks Act on the ballot. With over 140 specific projects in communities throughout
the county, Prop. A will address many of our most pressing park, recreation, at-risk youth, senior beach and
natural lands needs.

Campaign Office Opens: Citizens for Safe Neighborhood Parks is the official campaign committee
formed under state law to run the campaign to pass Proposition A and to accept contributions. We are working
long hours to ensure that the LA County Safe Parks Act stands the best possible chance of passage this
November and to raise the funds necessary to communicate to county voters. We need your help!

WHAT YOU CAN DO TO HELP PASS PROP. A:

Develop Local Campaign and Identify a Local Coordinator: Proposition A is on the ballot
because of your help and dedication - now we need your help more than ever to help us win in November! We
are working with each community in the county to identify a local contact person who will work closely with us
throughout the campaign to ensure our best possible chance of success. Please make sure that there is an
organized group and a designated local leader in your community.

Get Endorsements: Please keep working on endorsements! We need your help to get endorsements
from homeowners, civic, senior, business, conservation, sports, youth and religious organizations in your local
area. We can provide background information if you need it - contact us at campaign headquarters for more
information. Endorsements are vital to show the broad base of support for this measure throughout the
county, and will be extremely important for our media outreach just before the election.

Fundraising: Every little bit counts! We need to have a strong campaign budget so we can meet the
challenge of reaching the huge number of voters throughout Los Angeles County. We are working with each
local area in the county to set local fundraising goals to help us meet our overall target. Please contact us if you
are interested in holding a local fundraising event.
