Right to Vote on Taxes Act
Page 11

used for bonds that are actually protected by the impairment clause. Certificates of
Participation and other creative debt instruments would not be protected.] or,

(d) any assessment which previously received majority voter approval
from the voters voting in an election on the issue of the
assessment. Subsequent increases in such assessments shall be
subject to the procedures and approval process set forth in
Section 4.

[Annotation: Although the exception for assessments previously approved by the
voters will permit the continued collection of some particularly illegitimate
assessments, requiring an additional approval process would be redundant]

SEC. 6. Property Related Fees and Charges.

[Annotation: The purpose of this section is to prevent the exploitation of “fees” as a
means to avoid the new restrictions on assessments. Because flat rate parcel taxes
have avoided the strictures of Proposition 13 simply by being called “assessments,”
the drafters are concerned that the same will happen with “fees” -- that is,
circumventing taxpayer protections by manipulating the label of the levy.]

(a) Procedures for New or Increased Fees and Charges. An agency shall
follow the procedures pursuant to this section in imposing or increasing
any fee or charge as defined pursuant to this Article including, but not
limited to, the following:

(1) . The parcels upon which a fee or charge is proposed for imposition
shall be identified. The amount of the fee or charge proposed to
be imposed upon each parcel shall be calculated. The agency

* shall provide written notice by mail of the proposed fee or charge
to the record owner of each identified parcel upon which the fee
or charge is proposed for imposition, the amount of the fee or
charge proposed to be imposed upon each, the basis upon which
the amount of the proposed fee or charge was calculated, the
reason for the fee or charge, together with the date, time, and
location of a public hearing on the proposed fee or charge.

[Annotation: This section is applicable to any fee imposed on a parcel basis or for
fees which provide a property related service. It does not affect fees that are not
property related such as DMV fees, park fees, or administrative charges imposed by
a local government./]
