Qne Dision for a SStrong, Safe Santa Monica

Asha Greenberg
A PROVEN RECORD FIGHTING CRIME

Led the Santa Monica City Council to change city
homeless policies to make our parks and streets safer
Mayor Pro Tem
Los Angeles City gang and drug prosecutor
©Married to Max Greenberg; mother of two sons

“Caking Back Santa Monica

“When I first ran for city council four years ago, I pledged to
take back Santa Monica and to make our streets, parks, and
schoolyards safe again. As your city council representative, I
have worked hard to keep my pledge, voting to put more
police officers on our streets, and leading the fight to ban
aggressive panhandling and make our parks safer. I am
running for a second term because I want to continue making
our city a safer and better place to live.”

efiank Sehwengel

FISCAL KNOW-HOW AND A
COMMITMENT TO OUR YOUTH

air, Santa Monica Recreation and Parks Commission
—Five-term Santa Monica PTA president
PIA Lifetime Honorary Service Award
©Zoard member and past Council president, Santa
Monica Boys & Girls Club
Small business consultant
Married to Gwen Schwengel: four grown children

et Lifetime

“For 28 years as a Santa Monica resident, I have volunteered
my time and effort to improve life in Santa Monica, especially
for our youth. My many years of community involvement have
established my commitment to Santa Monica and have given
me the knowledge and experience our families need at City
Hall. With more than 30 years of professional experience in
finance, I can find ways for the city to fund new and improved
parks and programs for all Santa Monicans.”

Shari Davis

COMMON-SENSE SOLUTIONS

Putiic Policy Expert
Children's Advocate
Municipal Finance Specialist
Masters Degree in Public Policy from Harvard University
Wife and mother of two young children

Making Goveenment Work
“It's easy to see why people are losing faith in government: too
often sensible policy takes a back seat to politics. I believe that
there is a better way. My entire professional life has involved
putting good ideas to work for our community, bringing
computers into classrooms, improving transportation systems,
creating new opportunities for women entrepreneurs, and
helping local governments manage your tax dollars wisely. And
when government and businesses are in trouble, I use my
problem-solving experience to find solutions that make sense.
Fresh ideas, new energy, and government that works - that's
what I'll bring to City Hall.”

CA Chree-SPoint EPlan to AImprove Our “Gommunity

The Greenberg, Schwengel, and Davis team will work to improve public safety, create new
educational and recreational opportunities for our young people, and protect our quality of life.

One

MAKE SANTA MONICA
A SAFER PLACE

© Give the Santa Monica police and fire departments the
resources they need to keep our parks, homes and schools
safe

Support homeless services that encourage self-sufficiency
rather than dependence

© Work to relocate feeding programs from our parks to
indoor sites

<Gwo

SERVE SANTA MONICA'S
YOUTH AND SENIORS BETTER

Add more parks and athletic fields; improve the condition
and availability of existing community rooms, fields, gyms,
and swimming pools

Expand Santa Monica Library's services to youth, increasing
the use of computers

¢ Expand the routes and times covered by the city's shuttle bus

“Ohvree

PRESERVE SANTA MONICA'S
NATURAL RESOURCES

Keep our beautiful bay and beaches clean

© Monitor development to protect our residential
neighborhoods and open space

Upgrade commercial areas in ways that improve traffic flow
rather than clog traffic

¢ Protect and improve our urban forest and start recycling
yard waste

