ROSS PEROT
Answers for Associated Press Issues Surve
1. Day one: After the inauguration ceremony, what would be your first action as president?

The first step, which would begin before the inauguration, is to recruit experts in every field from Defense
to Social Security to build task forces that will carefully, thoughtfully and rationally develop solutions to our
nation’s complex problems and challenges. These talented men and women will only answer the concerns
of the American people — not the special interests.

2. Legal Immigration: Would you support legislation further reducing the number of legal immigrants
allowed in this country?

We must return immigration to a logical, orderly process where people fill out their applications and wait
for approval. We must make sure illegal immigrants stop storming our borders. We must establish the
correct criteria, such as our need for certain job skills or education, for granting the right to immigrate into
the United States.

3. Education: What is the main step to improve public education?

We have tried increased education spending, and learning has declined. We must restore local control over
our schools, and create small, neighborhood schools near our homes. There must be a primary emphasis on
having great teachers instead of expensive buildings. We now know that most of a child’s brain
development occurs before a child is six years old. This knowledge should be a major force in planning our
schools for the 21* century, particularly for disadvantaged children.

4. School Vouchers: Do you favor providing parents with vouchers to send their children to any
participating public, private or religious school?

This is one of many reform proposals that are being pilot tested. Before we make any major reform, we
must closely analyze the voucher programs now being conducted to determine their real benefits and
problems. I will withhold judgment on vouchers until the pilot programs have been completed.

5. Resources — Mining Fees: Do you support ensuring the government gets fair market return for publicly
owned minerals extracted by private mining companies on federal land?

Yes. Our government must stop subsidizing inefficient and environmentally destructive activities in the
mining industry that promotes private gain at public expense.

6. NAFTA-GATT: Overall, do you think the world trade agreement and North American free trade
agreement have advanced U.S. interests to date?

No. We must stop making one sided trade agreements that send American manufacturing jobs overseas.
The NAFTA and GATT trade agreements have in no way advanced the interest of the American people. In
each of the four years before NAFTA came into effect, the United States had a trade surplus with Mexico.
Last year we had a trade deficit with Mexico that exceeded $16 billion. During 1994 and 1995 our
cumulative trade deficit with Mexico and Canada was $52 billion. In addition, our merchandise trade deficit
with all nations was $174 billion last year — the largest trade deficit in the history of man. This is $174
billion that should have stayed within our borders and supported American jobs and companies.

7. Arts Subsidies: Do you support federal subsidies for the arts?

Our elected leaders should persuade the private sector to fund important programs for the arts. The $35
million each political party spent on their four-day commercials could have been better spent on charity, the
arts, and medical research.

