We would see a renaissance the likes of which has never been seen before.
Families could step off the tax treadmill; wages earners could relax a little, save more
easily; parents would have more time to spend with their children and with each other;
they would have more time to devote where it belongs -- to the home and hearth, where
all true value lies.

It is only by restoring wholeness of our nation’s families that wholeness will be
returned to our nation.

It is only by a serious commitment to family values -- not just of rhetoric, but of
resources -- that the moral and spiritual decline that so troubles us today will be arrested.

The family is the irreducible foundation of any civil, just and humane society and
cannot be replaced. And the liberal, ideological attempts to do so have disastrously
ripped our social fabric.

Everyone talks about values -- this is a campaign after all -- but let me tell you
how I see the values issue.

Values mean returning to the inspiration of our forefathers that all of us are
created equal.

Values mean respecting parents enough to return control of the schools to them.
That means giving parents the means to educate their children in the school of their
choice. ‘

Values mean having a government that keeps its promises, like on Social Security
and like working on a plan to provide for younger workers who now know they will get
nothing. ;

Values mean giving opportunity to all people by removing the red tape and taxes
that suffocate our cities.

Values mean welfare programs that help people rather than destroy them.
Values mean real prison sentences for violent crimes.

Values also mean refinding our moral compass in this world as a leader and light
among nations, a bastion of freedom, as strong as we are restrained. We need a President
who has a U.S., not a U.N. foreign policy. One who understands that the wise and
judicious use of American power is now, and has been, the best hope of the world. This
world is still a dangerous place; peace through strength must still be our watchword.
