: Ifsmall businesses are hiring so many new people, they must be doing well. Why can't
they afford to pay a little more?

A: California already ranks next to last, 49th of the 50 states, in measurements of how the
state treats small businesses. Proposition 217 would add to that by making us the No. 1 tax
state in the country. And remember, small business, as a category, accounts for most of the
new jobs, but many individual small businesses are struggling to survive. Proposition 217
would make that struggle even more difficult, by adding a permanent new tax on many of
those businesses.

: What about the proponents' claim that Proposition 217 would protect schools?

A: They claim that, but nobody knows for sure what would happen. Prop. 217 doesn't say a
word about how much money schools might get. It also has no guarantees as to how any
new money would be spent. Under Proposition 217, that money could be spent on
administrators and bureaucrats, instead of kids and classrooms!

: And what about the proponents' claim that Proposition 217 would return money to
cities and counties?

A: Once again, Proposition 217 contains no guarantees as to how cities and counties
should spend any new money. Who knows? That money could be spent on
administrators and bureaucrats, instead of parks and police.

: So what is it we DO know about where the money would go?

A: That's the problem; we just don't know! There are no guarantees and no

accountability as to how the money is spent. Our tax dollars, money that we worked hard to
earn, could simply disappear down some bureaucratic black hole. And remember we
already pay $62 billion in taxes to governments in California. Any plea for still more
money would be a lot more persuasive, if those government bureaucrats could first show us
that they had tightened their own belts -- and put an end to the wasteful spending of the
money they already have.

: So if Proposition 217 doesn't control how the money is used, was it put on the ballot
just to "soak the rich"'?

A: Good question! Proposition 217 might be well-intentioned, but those intentions never
made it into the language of this measure. There are just too many provisions with uncertain
and potentially dangerous economic consequences. This measure is too confusing, tackles
too many issues and hurts too many small businesses.
