The Safe, Clean, Reliable Water Supply Act
YES ON PROPOSITION 204!

While California faces enormous economic, political and social challenges,
none are as basic and important as a safe, reliable, affordable and sufficient
water supply. Water is the lifeblood of the California economy and the key to
the high quality of life that many of us take for granted.

The California Department of Water Resources warns that the state is facing
significant and growing water supply shortages that could have a devastating
impact on the state's economy and environment. The driving forces behind
these looming shortfalls are the state's increasing population and growing
environmental water needs. The Department further warns that by the year
2000, the state could routinely face water shortages that are more than three
times greater than the shortfalls experienced at the height of the 1987 - 1992
drought. During drought years, the impacts would more than double again. By
the year 2020, the shortages could exceed the amount of water consumed
today in all of California's urban areas.

PROPOSITION 204 provides the foundation for a comprehensive and lasting
solution to the state’s water quality and supply needs and achieves a critical
balance between the state's $750 billion economy and our environment.

PROPOSITION 204 will benefit California by:

@ ENSURING SAFE DRINKING WATER.
Proposition 204 helps meet safe drinking water standards by preventing
pollution in source water supplies.

@ RESTORING THE ECOLOGICAL HEALTH OF THE BAY-DELTA.
The San Francisco Bay / Sacramento - San Joaquin Delta is one of the state's
most important environmental resources and the source of drinking water for
22 million residents and tens of thousands of farms and businesses throughout
the state.

@ INCREASING WATER SUPPLIES.

Proposition 204 makes more water available to meet the state's growing
needs through conservation and recycling as well as planning for potential
new reservoirs and delivery systems to capture water in wet years for use
during droughts.
