YOU BE THE JUDGE

PHIL HAWKINS BETTY KARNETTE

“CALIFORNIA’S TOUGH NEW ‘THREE “STIFFER LAWS AND MORE PRISONS
STRIKES’ LAW HAS HELPED CUT CRIME WON’T SOLVE THE CRIME PROBLEM.”
23 PERCENT. WE MUST DEFEND IT eae ee
AGAINST LIBERAL POLITICIANS WHO PRESS TELEGRAM,
WANT TO WEAKEN IT.” Oct. 29, 1992

PHIL HAWKINS

= Helped deliver over
$21 million to strengthen local

law enforcement.
(1995-1996 State Budget)

= Refused to support
legislation prohibiting
the sale of pornography

in vending machines

" accessible to children.

= Supported California's (Assembly Bill 642, 5'93)

“Three Strikes” law and is

defending it against liberal

judges trying to weaken it.
(Co-author Senate Bill 331)

= Refused to support

legislation limiting conjugal visits

for murderers and sex offenders.

(Assembly Bill 546, 6/93)

= Supports the death penalty and truth in
sentencing laws to make convicted felons serve
their entire prison terms. Public Statements)

= Voted to require taxpayers to fund
education and training for all prison inmates
to earn a high school diploma or the

BIA rorenherGunirce Schools Actor1995° equivalent in prison. (Assembly Bill 2863, 4/94)

requiring automatic suspension for any student
who brings a gun to school. (Assembly Bil 49) = Refused to support stiffer penalties for

possession of LSD. (Assembly Bill 853,5/93)

Wrote legislation increasing penalties for
violent juvenile crime. (Assembly Bill 2723) = Doesn't support the tough, voter-approved
version of “Three Strikes” —even though it’s

helped cut crime in California by 23 percent.

. Wrote legislation signed by the Governor (Press-Telegram, 1/11/94; Grunion Gazette, 2/22/96)

guaranteeing crime victims receive their court-
ordered restitution and making parents accountable

for crimes committed by their children.
(Assembly Bills 989 and 990)

= Voted to reduce penalties for politicians

who violate conflict-of-interest provisions
from a felony and dismissal from office, to a mis-
demeanor allowing lawbreakers to stay in public
Office. (Assembly Bill 1869, 9/93)

Sponsored a measure imposing longer prison
sentences for criminals who use a gun while
committing a crime. (Assembly Bill 1538)

= Co-sponsored legislation expanding the death
penalty for murder committed during a car-
jacking or drive-by shooting. (Senate Bill 9)

“We’re opposing Betty Karnette
for State Senate. When it
comes to fighting crime, she’s

so liberal she wouldn’t even

Sponsored legislation increasing prison terms
for child abuse, especially when the accused has
a prior battery, sexual battery or lewd conduct
CONVICTION. (Assembly Bill 1606)

support legislation prohibiting
the sale of pornography in

vending machines accessible

Supported legislation allowing the Department of
Corrections to transfer violent sexual predators
to mental institutions instead of releasing them
when their prison sentences expire. (Assembly Bill 888)

to children. Betty Karnette
is the real extremist in this

campaign.”

Sponsored legislation requiring that 100% of Xf Qs

the money inmates earn by working in prison be Ken Smith

used to pay restitution to their victims. (Assembly Bill 1232) slp thea Lita cae
