Qs BAM OLS, UG She 6c sosty “2:
Yala eer ncer whics 3 Secencan: can se rec
respomsicie tor 20% of tne camages. ven f se se snes ondy i% at fut—e:ves may ‘awyess an
neencve tO sus everyone .n sigst.

The ‘mal .awyers, one of the richest and most sowersul Special interest loobies in
menca, have an enormous stake in maintaining the srasus quo: they rake in an astonishing one-
thiré of more of camages recovered in tort cases, reducing the amount received by injured
pares. Consumers are hurt as well: the average American family Sys an extra $200 per year in
‘asurance premiums to Make up for phony claims. (Source: Notional imurance CAme Suress)

President Clinton is clearly the tial lawyers’ candidate of choice, and for jood reason.
Mr. Clinton has consistently put vial lawyers ahead of consumers, workers. and businesses large
and smail--most recently by vetoing both product liability and securities litigation reform.

As President, Bob Dole will Sight for common-sense legal reform that promotes job
Opportunity and economic growth far into the furure—aend makes the power of the tial iawyer
lobby a thing of the past. Bob Dole will:

1, Limit punitive damages to $250,000 or three times economic damages, whichever is
greater, except in cases involving death. serious injury, alcohoi or drug use. criminal
misconduct, or civil rights violations. This limit will apply in ail civil cases—not just
product liability cases. Among the many groups this reform will protect are volunteer
Organizations.

ww

Abolish joint and several liability for non-economic damages in all sivil cases, Each
actor in a lawsuit should be held liable only for his or her fair share of the problem.
This reform will hein remove the incsative of trial lawyers to drag every possible
individual or business into a lawsuit.

[vr

. Promote early settlement of claims and reduce lawyers’ incentives to litigate by
allowing a defendant to make an “early offer”—within |20 days—to compensate a
plaintiff for all economic damages. including medical costs and lost income. The
plainti:t may reject the offer and pursue the lawsuit. But in that case. he or she may
only recover non-economic damages. including punitive damages, where there is
ctear and convincing proof that defendant's conduct was caused by intentional or
wanton misconduct, States will be able to opt out of this reform.

4. Ensure that money recovered in settlements goes to those who were injured, not their
lawyers, by curbing the abuse of contingency fee representacion. Where a defendant
offers an acceptable settlement. the plaintiff's lawyer may collect an hourly rate but
Not a contingency fee. [f the sertlement offer is rejected. the plaintiff's lawyer will
only be able to coilect 2 contingency fee for an amount awarded by a judge or jury
that exceeds the original offer. States will be able to opt out of this reform.
