modern politics where candidates raise money from interest

groups and shamelessly merchandise themselves in 30 second
advertisements to voters.

Special interests act as parasites sapping the vitality of
democratic government. They deter any focus on the future
with their incessant demands for favoritism in. the present.
For example, the oil industry has spent $18 million on
campaigns and lobbying in California since 1991, largely
attempting to thwart any shift towards renewable resources
or alternative forms of transportation. The tobacco industry
spends more money in California than anywhere else, in a
relentless campaign to prevent Californians from quitting
smoking. The tax structure is riddled with more tax loopholes
for interest groups than the budget for education.

It is no wonder that so many modern candidates and their
slogans seem to clone and blur, so ofter preaching trickle-
down economics combined with law-and-order. They favor
more tax breaks to business, oppose any loophole closures,
and all favor the “three strikes” law which will cost $20
billion. Few seem to notice that tens of billions of dollars in
tax breaks for the past 20 years have left our schools
underfunded at 41st in the U.S., and that a quadrupling of
our prison population from 28,000 to 140,000 has done little
to reduce violent crime.

One fundamental reason for this cloning is the common
dependency candidates have on campaign contributions from
the interest groups of the status quo. Quite simply, candidates
tend to think like the contributors from whom they raise
money, and those contributors are more interested in
borrowing from the future than investing in it.

But a state dominated by deceit and interest-group favoritism

12 Politics of the Spirit - A Dream of California

becomes dysfunctional during a time of sweeping global
change. The historian Barbara Tuchman describes this
process as “the march to folly,” when rulers become addicted
to old ways despite clear evidence of the need for reform.
This decay and dysfunction is what we are witnessing from
Sacramento to Washington.

Since the 1960s the cynical politics of Machiavelli’s state
have been opposed by a very different politics based in
spiritual and moral concerns, based on telling the truth rather
than manipulation, on participatory democracy rather than
placating interest-groups.

Nothing less than a paradigm shift in politics is occurring as
the centralized structures of the nation-state, of public and
private bureaucracy, and of the industrial corporation find
themselves undermined by democratic revolts, by

. decentralized information technologies, and by the emergence

of the environmental crisis.

We have seen the creative power of civil rights, women’s
and environmental movements make progress against the
institutional power of state and corporate bureaucracies time
after time.

The effort to achieve campaign reform and lobbying reform
is not simply about limiting contributions and tinkering with
disclosure forms. It is about awakening the power of citizens
to have meaningful lives.

We have seen the beginning of a spiritual force in politics in
the powerful global role of the Dalai Lama and the democratic
revolutions in South Africa and Czechoslovakia which elected
former political prisoners Nelson Mandela and Vaclav Havel
as presidents of their transformed nations.

Politics of the Spirit - A Dream of California 13
