4

initiative will result in greater costs to state and local governments because it
delays the imposition of fee sanctions against offending attorneys until the legal
matter and all appeals are finally concluded.

Why should taxpayers vote for a law that drives up the cost of government
by dragging out court proceedings?

Current law requires a lawyer who is sanctioned by a penalty greater than
$1,000 to notify the State Bar within 30 days. Proposition 207 does not require
the State Bar to be notified of a sanction, no matter how large, until the case
involved is finally concluded.

What purpose is served consumers of legal services by delaying the State
Bar's receipt of potentially important disciplinary information on
attorneys?

Il. Excessive Attorneys Fees (Initiative Sec. 5)

A.

/question.207 - 8/22

Proposition 207 sets out complex criteria to be met before a client can obtain
relief from "excessive" attorney fees -- whether contingent or hourly. By
requiring a consumer of legal services to satisfy 13 elements of an
"unconscionable" fee in order to escape an excessive fee contract or get an
excessive contingency fee returned, the initiative tips the attorney-client
relationship further in the direction of the attorney who is trained to meet
complex proof requirements. Also, the initiative says that no matter how
unconscionable a fee or contract, the lawyer involved can count on getting his
expenses in the lawsuit paid by his client. The proposition says nothing about
what a client or judge can do when a fee is unreasonable.

Who really benefits from an "excessive fee" law so excessively complicated
itself that it is tilted in favor of unscrupulous lawyers who put their
interests ahead of their clients? Importantly, the proposition only
addresses fees that are so bad they are "unconscionable." This sets a much
weaker standard for unfair fees. If 207 passes, lawyers are sure to argue
that judges should apply this weaker test when reviewing whether fees are
fair because it is a standard approved by the voters. There will be a trend
toward more fees that are unreasonable but not so bad as to be
"unconscionable."
