5: Delta Recreation - - $2 million

Provides funds for public recreational access in the delta through voluntary easements and construction of
facilities. (Benefits: statewide recreational enthusiasts)

6. CALFED Planning and Feasibility - - $3 million

Provides funding to pay the state’s share of costs associated with planning and feasibility activities
required through the CALFED Bay-Delta Program. (Benefits: bay-delta dependent water users)

Clean Water and Water Recycling Program
(Chapter 5, $235 million)

This chapter provides loans and grants to improve water quality and to promote water recycling and reuse.
1. Clean Water Loans - - $80 million

Provides assistance to local agencies for the construction of wastewater treatment plants. The
commitment of state funds leverages federal dollars on a 1 to 5 ratio. The goal of the program is to
prevent water pollution by enabling local agencies to meet applicable water quality standards. (Benefits:
statewide) c

2. Small Community Grants - - $30 million

Provides funds for construction of treatment projects by local agencies with a population of 5,000 or less
that can demonstrate a financial hardship. Such agencies are eligible for grants under the federal Clean
Water Act. A single project may not receive more than $3.5 million. (Benefits: all communities with a
population of 5,000 or less)

3. Water Recycling Program - - $60 million

Provides loans to local agencies to aid in the design and construction of recycling projects. The goal of
the program is to provide a cost-effective means of stretching existing water supplies while meeting
applicable water quality and public health requirements. (Benefits: directly urban areas and indirectly
statewide by relieving pressure on fresh water supplies)

4. Drainage Management- - $30 million
Provides loans to local agencies to construct facilities to treat agricultural drainage water and to remove or
substantially reduce the level of pollutants with preference given to source reduction projects and

programs. The program would also finance feasibility studies. (Benefits: directly in San Joaquin
Valley, Riverside and Imperial Valley, and indirectly statewide through improved water quality)

7129196
