Okay. Now, since this is just exploding our job base and tax base which would give us
the ability to balance our budget and pay our debts, why did both parties, and I mean they
were bound at the hip on this one, pass these stupid trade deals? I’m for fair free trade.
I’m against stupid trade. This is stupid trade.

You know the answer, and I want to make sure all the American people know the answer.
The special interests who paid for their campaigns and all that glitz you saw last week,
and you'll see next week. Our conventions cost about $800,000 together. They spent over
thirty million on theirs. I think ours are better than theirs.

Don’t you think if we had that kind of plain thinking in Washington. I remember in ‘92
they spent 20, 30 million dollars apiece. We spent a million and a half getting petitions
signed. I think we made the point that we’re more cost effective than they are.

Now, everywhere I go, people ask me, “Ross, what’s the problem with Medicare and
Medicaid?” In 1965, when we created Medicare, the spending forecast for 1990 was $9
billion. The actual spending was $98 billion. The reason it’s in trouble, they never
designed it to work.

Now, let’s go to Medicaid. Massive legislation, massive funding failure — you wouldn’t
make a screwdriver that way. Medicare and Medicaid are more complex than putting a
man on the moon. In the 1960’s when Medicaid was created, they told the taxpayers in
1990 it won’t cost more than a billion dollars. It cost $41 billion.

The annual cost of Medicare and Medicaid today is $250 billion a year. The two parties
let this happen. Why? And they let it keep on happening. The special interests who fund
their campaigns are making huge amounts of money at your expense. We’ll stop them.

I encourage you to read a book we published on this subject. The title of the book is
Intensive Care, We Must Save Medicare and Medicaid Now. The devil is in the details
and the details are in the book. Our government forecast the cost of Medicare and
Medicaid and Social Security in the year 2030 will be $3.9 trillion. That’s more than
twice as much money than we spend each year to operate our whole country today. Once
you see something like that coming, you stop it quick. And we will after “96.

What’s the problem with Social Security? Everybody thinks it’s a pension fund. It’s pay-
as-you-go. It comes in this week and goes out next week to retired people. You say, then
how did it ever work? In 1945, we had 42 people that worked for every person retired. By
1950, that number dropped to 16 people that worked for every person retired. We raised
rates, expanded benefits, kept on working.

Today, we only have 3.3 people at work for every person retired and we’re headed to two
people at work for every person retired in the year 2020. We must transition Social
Security from a pay-as-you-go fund to a true pension fund. Nobody in the Reform Party
