COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
OFFICE OF THE ASSESSOR

KENNETH P. HAHN
ASSESSOR

Dear Concerned Citizen,

Whenever a ballot measure proposes spending public funds, taxpayers worry if they will be protected.
That’s why Prop. A on your November ballot includes strict fiscal safeguards which ensure complete
protection for taxpayers while providing funds to meet an urgent public need.

Prop. A — The Los Angeles County Safe Neighborhood Parks Act will provide more than $300 million to
improve safety at beaches and parks, maintain existing parks and provide safe places for our children to
play in every community in Los Angeles.

| have reviewed Prop. A. and have concluded that its strict fiscal safeguards will protect taxpayers.
Prop. A was developed by citizen groups, not politicians. It was written to ensure Prop. A will only pay for
urgently needed projects including park safety improvements — and not for new bureaucracy.

The fiscal safeguards built into Prop. A include:
e ANNUAL INDEPENDENT AUDIT. Prop. A requires an annual independent audit of all expenditures.

e FULL PUBLIC DISCLOSURE. Prop. A requires complete and total public disclosure of every
dollar spent.

e® SPENDING IS EXPLICITLY SPECIFIED. Prop. A lists how every dollar must be spent for more
than 140 specific projects throughout the county.

e NO NEW BUREAUCRACY. Prop. A creates NO NEW AND UNNECESSARY LAYERS of
bureaucracy.

Prop. A will cost the average household only 56 cents per month, and the fiscal safeguards in Prop.
A will ensure that taxpayers will be protected while we meet an urgent public need.

The American Association of Retired Persons (AARP), the California Organization of Police and
Sheriffs, the L.A. Chamber of Commerce and community leaders like Peter Ueberroth are suppor-
ting Prop. A because we need to invest in safe places for our children to play in our communities.
Please join them and join me in voting YES on A — For Safe Neighborhood Parks.

Sincerely,

Phonbd Co

KENNETH P. HAHN
Los Angeles County Assessor

PS: Remember, Prop. A includes strict fiscal safeguards to protect taxpayers. Annual independent
audits and full public disclosure of all expenditures ensure your tax dollars will be spent
properly.

Not Printed, Handled, or Mailed at Government Expense.
Not Official Business.
