Jack and Lacreta Scott were college sweethearts
at Abilene Christian University. Today, after 42 years of
marriage, five children and eight grandchildren, they
remain deeply in love. They're also a team. “She’s my
fiercest supporter, my wisest critic and my best friend,”
says Jack.

Both Scotts were born and raised in Texas.
“Church, family and school were at the center of our
lives back then,” Jack remembers, “and they still are
today.”

“Jack and | were fortunate to grow up in families
and communities that were rich in values,’ recalls
Lacreta. “Every child needs and deserves that kind of
start.”

Jack trained first for the ministry, earning his
Master of Divinity from Yale University. When Pepperdine
University offered him a job teaching Religion in 1962,
Jack and Lacreta came to California with their three
young daughters (Sharon, Sheila and Amy). By 1966,
the family had added two boys (Greg and Adam).

Teaching by day and studying by night, Jack
earned his M.A. and PhD. in American History at
Claremont Graduate School. While caring for the family,
Lacreta also returned to school, earning her B.A. and
M.A. in English.

In 1973, Jack became Dean of Instruction at
Orange Coast College. The next few years were rich
with graduations and weddings. And in 1978, when
Jack became President of Cypress College, the Scott's
first grandchild was born (Today the grandchildren
range in age from 2 to 18!)

By the time Jack was named President of
Pasadena City College in 1987, the last of the children
had left home and Lacreta had joined the English facul-
ty at Cerritos College.

Families are forged in sadness as well as in
joy. For the Scotts, profound tragedy struck in 1993.
Their youngest son, Adam, was shot and killed by a

careless gun user. “Adam was only 27. He had just
graduated from U.S.C. Law School,” Jack explains.
“Losing a son to violence is a pain that never ends. But
we've worked hard as a family to take the pain and turn
it to positive ends.”

Jack has reached out to help others through the
Coalition for a Non-Violent City. “I see it as a memorial
to Adam,” he says, “and to all the others whose lives
have been cut short by violence. | want to spare other
families the kind of loss we have suffered.”

