are far more intelligent than I am, and they have carried me from victory to victory to
victory. One good example is Mort Meyerson. He’s the great creative builder of EDS. His
grandfather had to flee Russia because he was Jewish. After leaving Ellis Island, he lived
in an attic in New York for two years to save enough money to buy a train ticket to Fort
Worth. He moved to Fort Worth, married, raised a great son, Mort’s dad. If you could
meet Mort’s mother and father, you would see why he’s creative and successful. When he
became president of EDS, Mort made sure his grandfather was present at the
announcement. After we had formally announced it, his 95-year-old grandfather ran
down, he literally ran down at 95, hugged Mort and said these words that I will never
forget: “Through you I have realized the dream I had as a young man when I came to
America.” Now isn’t that what this great country is all about?

Think of the pioneers who headed West in covered wagons. Where did they eat? There
were no McDonald’s restaurants. At the end of the day, they hunted for food. Some found
food, others did not find food and guess what? Those who found food shared it with those
who did not. Now that’s a great country.

Well, surely there was a network of Holiday Inns across the country for these people to
stop at night and have a good night’s sleep. They circled the wagons, slept on the ground
and they took turns standing guard protecting one another. No wonder we’re such a great
nation. It’s built on solid ground.

Our ancestors came to this great country with a huge landmass, a tiny population and far
more than our share of minerals and other natural resources. In the old days, our ancestors
would move into an area, creatively strip it of its natural resources and the word would
get out, “Go West, young man, go West.” We’ve got over 260 million people in this
country. We’ve populated it from coast to coast: We cannot leave our problems behind.
We have to solve them where we are and we’re not. But you and I, millions of us together
will, right?

The pilgrims, the pioneers and those who survived the Depression were proud,
independent people who took care of themselves and looked after one another. They were
hunters, they were survivors. History teaches us that when you take these skills away
from people by looking after them, you destroy those skills, but more important, you
destroy their self-respect, their pride and their dignity, and you also do that when you take
a good person’s job away from them and send it over to Asia at 25 cents an hour.

If you want an example nobody can argue with, let’s take the American Indian. Look at
what the Indians accomplished before we put them on the reservation and look at the
damage we did to these great people by taking care of people who had been proud,
independent hunters, warriors, survivors and empire builders.

As you think about the future of our great country with all the facts that you have in your
head, and we are dedicated to getting into the heads of every single American before
November, I’d like for you to consider these words written by Alexander Tytler in 1787,
