will happen in the 21st century if we don’t stop the bleeding now. Let’s get a tourniquet
and stop the bleeding in November 1996. If you don’t the debt will climb to $7 trillion by
the year 2000 so we have to.

Now why did the two parties let this happen? How does our government finance this
debt? Seventy percent of our debt is financed short-term. It’s like having your house
payment month-to-month. The purpose is to create the illusion of short-term deficits, but
when interest rates start going up again, we’ve seen short-term as high as 16 percent a
year in our lifetime. The deficit will increase at the rate of $35 billion a year. We can’t let
that happen. ;

If this is the instrument panel of a fighter airplane, you’d eject at this point. But you can’t
eject because this is our home. This is the greatest country in the world. We’ve got to
pick up a hammer and start repairing the roof.

If I haven’t gotten your attention yet, last year we paid $233 billion in interest. Everybody
west of the Mississippi River’s taxes are used to pay interest on the debt. How would you
like to live in California and hear that? The good news is yours is still working on
problems, but when you look at that map, you can see that line is moving east. They’ ll get
you pretty soon with that. Why did the parties let this happen? I don’t know.

We all know about the budget deficit but we’ve got two deficits. We never talk about the
other one because the special interests demanded it in return for their campaign money,
and the boys in Washington delivered it, and that is the trade deficit.

U.S. merchandise trade deficit last year was $174 billion. That’s the largest of any nation
in the history of man. In 1950, 90 percent of the goods sold in this country were made in
the USA. Today less than 50 percent of the goods sold in this country are made in the
USA. Two million manufacturing jobs have gone to Asia. 500,000 jobs have gone to
Mexico. In any event, NAFTA was supposed to be a money-maker, right? No wonder the
guys who voted for it are now telling you they’re against it. Cumulative NAFTA deficit is
$52 billion and growing like a weed. Did NAFTA cause a giant sucking sound? Okay.

Do you remember how we were ridiculed and derided? Somebody said I’d rather be right
than president. In this situation, we’ve got to be right and president to clean out this mess.
Thanks you.

Now, you add up our cumulative trade deficits for the last ten years, it exceeds a trillion
dollars. Study what all the economists say. We can’t exist with that. We’re the biggest
market in the world for goods and services. Everybody wants to sell to us. Europe doesn’t
make dumb trade deals with Japan. We’re the only industrialized nation in the world with
China. We better find somebody who knows how to horse trade. Don’t you think? God
bless my Dad. He taught me this as a boy. Thank you.

