Isn’t this a compelling argument that the people who own this country should have their
own political party with no special interests controlling it?

Now, we've got to keep going. We’ve got to face problems and solve them and step one
is to identify the problems. Let’s review them to see what we have to do to pass ona
better, stronger country to children in the 21st century and make it the greatest in our
country’s history. Our country’s major problems are caused by huge social programs that
were never designed to work properly and have generated major cost overruns. These
major cost overruns have created massive debt. In addition, we have seriously damaged
our job base with poorly negotiated trade agreements and that has caused our tax base to
deteriorate. It all fits together like pieces in a puzzle.

Today, the two political parties have created the number one growth industry and I want
to give them full credit for that. The U.S. government makes our other major industries
look insignificant. People are saying what product do they make, Ross? They don’t make
one. Well, then, where do they get the money for this great new industry? From you.
Well, how do the customers feel about this giant new industry? Only 19 percent of the
American people trust this giant new industry. That’s how they feel. .

Okay. But now look, we’ve got this huge thing going. Does it make a profit? No. Does it
lose money? Yes. How much money does it have in the bank? None. Does it have any
debt? Yes. And you know it’s five trillion dollars, right?

Well, as business people out there working hard all day trying to make a living you say,
well, how does it avoid going bankrupt? Let’s look on page 18 of the President’s 1997
budget, and here is the record. We have assets of 2.3 trillion dollars. We have liabilities of
$5.2 trillion dollars. We have a negative net worth in the federal government of $2.9
trillion. And guess who’s going to have to pick up all of that? We are. See, you’re the
only source of money.

Well, but they left something out. They left out $17 trillion worth of guarantees. So that
negative worth is almost $20 trillion.

So that’s where we are today. Now, do you get this kind of straight talk from the other
political parties? Would you rather hear this kind of talk from me, or do you want me to
get tears in my eyes leaning over the audience and saying “I feel your pain?”

Do you want a president who led the fight to get GATT and NAFTA passed and then
stood up in public on national television and said he was against both of them last week?
Remember that one, don’t you?

Remember that song -- We had a movie a few years ago with Dolly Parton in it, “The
Best Little “You know What’ in Texas?” The sheriff had this song, “Ooh, I love to do the
little side step. Now you see me, now you don’t and here I go.” Keep that in mind when
you watch these guys.
