Proposition 217

Analysis:

* Highest effective state income tax rate. If Proposition 217 passes, California would
have the highest effective tax rate in the nation (considering that some states allow
federal income taxes to be deducted from state income taxes).

. iti tai x n_small busi Eighty percent of California
business taxpayers file under the personal income tax law, not the bank and
corporation tax law. The vast majority of California’s small businesses have ten or
fewer employees. This initiative would substantially increase tax liability for some
small businesses paying personal income taxes, and small business creates 60
percent of new jobs in California.

* Retroactive tax penalties. If approved by voters in November, this initiative would
retroactively apply higher tax rates to income earned since January 1, 1996.

Businesses and taxpayers that are complying with current law and making quarterly
payment and withholding based on 1996 tax rates could be subject to penalties as a
result of Proposition 217. P

* Growing communities would be denied full revenue benefits of future growth. In an
effort to avoid future property tax shifts, the initiative states that each local
jurisdiction would be guaranteed the same percentage of county wide property tax
revenue that it received in the 1995-96 fiscal year. Under current law the
percentage each local agency receives fluctuates with the growth in assessed value
in jurisdictions. If this proposition passes, a city that attracted new development
would be required to share any new property tax revenue with other jurisdictions in
the county. This could lead to jurisdictions charging higher impact fees or denying
some development that does not generate enough new tax revenue to cover the
cost of services to support growth.

* Hinders future annexations and city incorporati Annexation of territory by a city

and formation of new cities, like the effort in the San Fernando Valley, would be
undercut because existing shares of property tax would be locked in, making any
reallocation of existing property tax impossible. A new city would receive no
property tax revenue and would have to raise additional taxes to support city
services normally funded by the property tax.

* California's personal income tax is already the most progressive in the nation. High
progressivity provides a further disincentive for upper-income individuals to move to
California or to locate or expand a business here. Clear evidence from the 1991 tax
increase on upper income Californians and the federal tax increase in 1993 shows
that this kind of tax increase diminishes economic activity and results in slower
economic growth.

September 15, 1996 Page 2

Dr
