Don't tell that to Assemblywoman Paula Boland!

Paula Boland has earned her reputation as a with downtown Los Angeles politi-
fighter who isn’t afraid to take on “city hall’ - or any cians who believe they know what’s
other powerful special interest that supports the best for the rest of us.

status quo and opposes positive change.

That’s because, first and foremost,
Paula believes her job is to represent
the people who put their trust in her -

the voters.

Her colleagues made her Chair of the
Assembly Public Safety Committee — the first
woman ever to hold one of the most important jobs
in the Legislature.

Time and time again she has taken
on the powerful trial lawyers, and won -

enacting groundbreaking-la o-help

For 27 years, parents have cried out for the
t e and wasteful Los Angeles
Unified School District. Paula’s new law, that

passed over the objections of the. powerful teachers ‘

0! bureaucrats, now gives Paul
parents the ability to breakup this mam
$4.5 billion bureaucracy.

undamental belief in the But the people who know her best — those she
is sworn to represent — know they are represented

motivated Paula to go head to head st California has to offer.

“Assemblywoman Paula Boland has risen to the crest
of a wave that could reshape two of Southern
California’s largest institutions... unlike anything since
the building boom following World War II”

Los Angeles Times, 5/12/96

“While she’s not trying to bust up the governmental structures
of Los Angeles, Boland's other passion has been legislation
aimed at child abuse...she wrote a bill two years ago calling
Jor life sentences for repeat child molesters”

Daily News, 6/16/96

“Boland’s championing of ‘democracy’ and ‘self-deter-
mination’ has helped her attain a high visibility...”
Los Angeles Times, 6/9/96

“Assemblywoman Paula Boland has introduced
legislation to abolish the office of Lieutenant Governor,
saying it would downsize state government and save
taxpayers money.”

The Signal, 2/2/95

“Assemblywoman Paula Boland has done it again”
Daily News, 8/29/96

“Boland skillfully led her bill through the Assembly...”
Daily News, 9/4/96

“I give you every credit for being crafty and feisty

Jor doing a great job.”
Senate Leader Bill Lockyer, Daily News, 8/9/96

