Other Limits. The measure limits the total amount
of loans a candidate may make to his or her campaign.
These limits are $25,000 for candidates for Governor and
$10,000 for all other candidates. Officeholders and
candidates are prohibited from soliciting or receiving
contributions from, or arranged by, lobbyists.

Businesses, labor organizations, and nonprofit
corporations are prohibited from making contributions,
but they may:

¢ Spend unlimited amounts for internal
communications with members, employees, or
shareholders for purposes of supporting or opposing
a candidate for elective office or a ballot measure.
Create political action committees for the purpose of
supporting a candidate for elective office or a ballot
measure.
¢ Provide support to any Citizen Contribution

Committee, if the committee receives contributions

of up to $5,000 per year.
¢ Provide support for fund-raising, administration,

and compliance for any committee (excluding
committees in support of a candidate ar political
party committees).

Mandatory and Voluntary Spending Limits

The measure establishes mandatory campaign
spending limits. In the past, the U.S. Supreme Court has
ruled that mandatory spending limits in election
campaigns violate the U.S. Constitution. The measure
provides that if the mandatory limits are invalidated by
the courts, the spending limits will become voluntary.
The measure establishes spending limits in local
government elections of 40 cents per resident for each
office. The spending limits for individual candidates for
state offices are shown in Figure 2.

Proposition 212
Mandatory/Voluntary
Campaign Spending Limits *

Primary General
: Election Limit Election Limit

State Assembly
State Senate

Statewide office
(other than Governor)”

Governor 2,000,000 5,000,000

* Measure establishes mandatory limits, but provides that the limits will
become voluntary if the mandatory limits are invalidated by the courts.

° Such as Lieutenant Governor, Attormey General, and State Treasurer.

$ 75,000
115,000
1,250,000

$ 150,000
235,000
1,750,000

Access to Ballot Pamphlets. If the voluntary limits
go into effect, the measure requires that candidates who
accept the spending limits be so identified in ballot
pamphlets and on the ballot. These candidates also
would be entitled to place a statement free-of-charge in
the applicable state or local ballot pamphlet. Candidates
who do not accept the spending limits would be so
identified on the ballot. In addition, these candidates
may also place a statement in the ballot pamphlet, but
would have to pay the costs of printing, handling, and
mailing the statement.

Restrictions on When Contributions

May Be Accepted

This measure places restrictions on when campaign
contributions may be accepted. For any elective office, no
candidate may accept contributions more than nine
months before any primary election. Fund-raising for all
candidates must end on the date of the election and no
contributions may be accepted more than 30 days after
the election.

Other Provisions

Elimination of Restrictions on Candidate
Honoraria, Gifts, and Travel. This measure repeals
current law that prohibits elected officials from receiving
honoraria and limits their receipt of gifts. Currently,
elected officials cannot accept gifts valued at more than
$280 from any single source. The measure also
eliminates the restrictions on when elected officials can
accept reimbursement for travel.

Elimination of Tax Deductions for Lobbying and
Increases in Lobbyist Registration Fees. The
measure eliminates all state income tax deductions for
lobbying. The measure also increases the fee charged to
register as a lobbyist with the Secretary of State. Any
additional state revenues resulting from the elimination
of this tax deduction and the increase in registration fees
would be used to offset the costs of implementing and
enforcing the measure.

Penalties and Enforcement. This measure
increases penalties for violations of campaign law. In
addition, any person who has violated campaign laws
three times would be subject to removal from office and
subject to a permanent ban from (1) holding any state or
local office in the future or (2) registering as a lobbyist.
Enforcement of the measure’s provisions can either be
through governmental agencies, such as the Fair
Political Practices Commission (FPPC), or registered
voters, who would be allowed to sue those candidates
who violate any provisions of the measure.

Disclosure of Major Donors. Any campaign
advertisement for a candidate or ballot measure must
disclose the names of the donors making contributions
above specified levels.

G96
