14,

before the state Supreme Court include Potter vs. Firestone, where the court
rejected the creation of a new cause of action for "fear of cancer," and Peterson
y. Superior Court in which the justices unanimously reversed a 10-year-old
ruling making landlords liable for product defects outside their sphere of
knowledge.

It is important to note that ACTR represents local governments and schools as
well as businesses and professionals. ACTR works closely with other associations and
representatives of individual companies in Sacramento, providing data and building
coalitions to further our joint goals.

The Association's staff is headed by John H. Sullivan, president, who headed
ACTR in 1991-92, and returned to ACTR in November 1994 after serving as chief
deputy director of Fish and Game in the Wilson Administration. Sullivan and
California Chamber of Commerce President Kirk West are co-chairing the campaign
against the securities plaintiffs lawyers’ initiative on the November 1996 ballot. The
ACTR staff includes Mike Carpenter, vice president for legislation, who has extensive
experience as a defense lawyer and who, along with Sullivan, is a registered lobbyist.
He also manages Californians for Civil Justice Reform ACTR's separate Political
Action organization. General Counsel Fred Hiestand works on a retainer to run the
Association’s appellate program.

With tort reform a major issue on both the federal and state level for almost a
year now, it is understandable that more individuals and new organizations are joining
the fight for a better legal system. The public is demanding change as never before.

The problems ACTR addresses are not ones that grew up overnight. They
evolved gradually via the exertion of constant pressure on courts and legislatures.
Neither will the change we need come overnight. ACTR's involvement in cases,
legislation, and initiatives in the past has been made possible by a membership that
believes in the importance of continuing positive change and knows that when
improvements are achieved, they must be preserved in the face of future public
relations, legislative, and judicial challenges.

w:\admin\summary.doc (06/24/96)
