Sietanatiintinabies chins sciabidhrnia Chott Rights Tadttait

constitutionality of the CCRI’s prohibition on voluntary
plans that were otherwise constitutionally permissible.

Voluntary Versus Compelled | Affirmative Action
Programs

When analyzing voluntary affirmative action programs,
Professors Grodin and Varat considered the potential
distinction between voluntary plans that are
constitutionally permitted and voluntary plans that are
constitutionally compelled. Professor Grodin concluded it
would be too hard to legally draw this distinction without
public entities seeking court approval of their plans, and
thereby opening themselves up to the “expense of a
lawsuit and to the risk of damages.” He suggested the
Supreme Court wouldn’t want to expose governmental
bodies to such expense as the price for doing what they
arguably ought to do in order to comply with federal law.

On the other hand, Professor Varat concluded that
voluntary affirmative action plans that are
constitutionally permissible could be validly prohibited
under the CCRI. He believes the U.S. Supreme Court
would find that all voluntary affirmative action plans that
meet constitutional standards are permitted under the
law but not compelled. If Professor Varat is correct in his
analysis, then the CCRI would preclude many existing
state and local affirmative action programs because most
of these programs have been voluntarily adopted and
voluntarily enforced by governmental entities.

As Professor Grodin points out, the potential scope of the
CCRI is very narrow if he’s correct that it cannot validly
be applied to affirmative action plans undertaken by
government entities to remedy their own prior
discrimination in accord with current federal
constitutional principles. This is true because existing
federal case law already limits state and local
governments when instituting an affirmative action plan.
As long as the voluntary affirmative action plan meets
federal constitutional standards, the public entity would
be allowed to continue implementing it.

11
