WIN

*IN*«

"06

President Clinton and the Democratic Party....

Teaming Up to Fight Crime

100,000 More Cops on the Streets
The President's Cops on the Street program, which will put 100,000 more cops on the street, has
already funded 43,000 new officers. Bob Dole not only voted against the bill, he led a filibuster to
prevent its consideration. And this year, Dole’s budget proposes eliminating funding for these
desperately needed community-based police officers.

Cop Killer Assault Weapons Banned
The 1994 Clinton Crime Bill bans 19 types of assault weapons. These close quarter, rapid fire, cop
killing assault weapons are the weapons of choice for gangs, cop killers, and drug dealers. America's
police officers asked for the assault weapons ban and every single major law enforcement organization in
the country fought for it. Bob Dole opposes the ban on cop killing assault weapons.

Handgun Waiting Period and Background Check
President Clinton signed the Brady Bill into law. The law imposes a five-day waiting period so
that a background check can be mun before an individual purchases a handgun. More than 60,000
criminals have been blocked from buying handguns. Bob Dole opposed the Brady Bill.

The Violent Crime and Control Act
President Clinton fought for and signed it, Bob Dole opposed it. Clinton’s Crime Bill:

Puts 100,000 more police on the street;

Builds more prisons and provides for longer sentences for violent criminals;

Bans 19 types of assault weapons;

Makes "Three Strikes And You're Out" the law of the land;

Makes it illegal for kids to carry handguns;

Extends the death penalty for the most heinous crimes;

Requires sexual predators to register with law enforcement, which may then notify
the community that a sexual predator lives in the area;

Gives children positive alternatives to crime and drugs; and

¢ Combats sexual and domestic violence through the Violence Against Women Act.

Securing Our Borders
President Clinton has added over 1,000 border patrol agents to secure our borders.

Issue Paper No. 4 June 1996

DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE

430 South Capitol Street, S.E. * Washington, D.C. 20003 * 202.863.8000 © http://www.democrats.org
