The expenditures made for the mobilehome programs were also low relative to the proportion
of residents living in mobilehome parks. Approximately 2% of the residents in the jurisdictions
with mobilehome rent control laws live in mobilehome parks. However, only about 0.1% of the
total of the budgets of these jurisdictions was devoted to administering the programs. 4 The
chart in Appendix B provides a breakdown by city of the percentage of residents in mobilehome
parks and the percentage of their net budgets devoted to administering the mobilehome rent

control program.

V. Determinants of Program Costs

The principal determinant of the amount spent by localities on mobilehome rent control was
the amount and type of litigation associated with the program. In jurisdictions with much higher
than average expenditures on mobilehome rent controls, litigation was the most substantial
expense. Jurisdictions which grant annual across-the-board increases were likely to have lower
litigation expenses, while those which require a hearing before any increase can be given tended
to have higher litigation expenses.

From 1986 through 1991, localities incurred substantial Pagel expenses defending lawsuits
based on “taking” theories adopted in a U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals decision (Hall v. City of
Santa Barbara).'° In 1992, these theories were rejected by the U.S. Supreme Court Yee v, City
of Escondido.'* However, in the meantime, cities incurred hundreds of thousands of dollars in
legal expenses as a result of the Hall legal doctrines, that were ultimately overruled. In the past
few years, most litigation has centered on the issue of what constitutes a "fair return”. Cities are
required to pay for the cost of defending these suits regardless of whether they prevail or lose
in court.

'4 The total population in mobilehome parks is estimated by multiplying the number of park spaces by two.
The census reports do not provide data on the number of persons living in mobilehome parks; however, they
indicate that owner occupied mobilehomes have approximately two residents on the average.
The total population of jurisdictions with mobilehome rent control ordinances that were in effect throughout
1993-94 is 14,055,031. The number of mobilehome park spaces in these jurisdictions is 132,500. The total
expenditures of these jurisdictions in FY 92-93 was $7.2 billion. The Reports on local budgets for the fiscal year
1993-94 were not released as of the time that this data was compiled; however, such data would not substantially
change the overall ratios.)

'S 933 F2d. 1270 (1986). The Court ruled that mobilehome space rent controls without vacancy decontrols
constituted a "physical taking" of a park owner’s property.

'6 503 U.S. __, 112 S.Ct.1522 (1992).
