I am talking about across the board tax cuts that are deep and wide and permanent,
that reach down to all Americans and get the suffocating weight of the IRS off their
backs.

Start by scrapping the tax code. Don’t fiddle with it. Junk it. Throw it out. Bury
it. Replace it with a pro-growth, pro-family tax cut that lowers tax rates to 17% across
the board and expands exemptions for individuals and children so that a family of four
would pay no taxes on the first $36,000 of income.

Not one cent to the IRS on the first $36,000. Anything over that would be taxed
at a flat, fair 17%.

The flat tax would be simple. You could fill it out on a postcard. It would be
honest. It would eliminate the principal source of political corruption in Washington. It
would be fair. Millions of people would be off the federal income tax rolls.

There would be no tax on Social Security. No tax on pensions. No tax on
personal savings. It would zero out capital gains taxes. It would set off a boom by letting
people keep more of what they earn and by lowering barriers to risk taking.

I will underline here this distinction between my proposal and those floated by
other candidates in this political season:

I am straightforwardly calling for a tax cut to expand the economy and make
everyone better off.

The old-style Washington politicians hide behind the deficit. They give us shell
games rather than tax cuts because their one priricipal is never, ever take money from
Washington. As we all know, the deficit was the prime rationale for the last two tax
hikes -- two of the largest tax hikes in American history -- which put the country on a
down-ward spiral destroying growth and, guess what, expanding the deficit.

I am proposing real tax cuts because I believe that growth is the key that will
unlock the deficit prison.

Will I cut the budget? You bet. Commerce, Energy, Education, HUD will be
stripped of all but their essential functions. A whole alphabet soup of agencies will be
eliminated. But cutting alone won’t solve our problems.

The fact is I don’t just want less government, I want better government. The way
it is now, good men and good woman come to Washington and get caught in a culture of
corruption. They enter a place whose rules and realities almost force them to put their
own interests before the country’s. And they wind up becoming the very people they
come here to fight.
