c. Programs with Other than “Minimal” Net Costs

A total of 37 jurisdictions were not wholly self-financing, and did not report their costs as
"minimal." Of these, 2U reported net costs of under $20,000. In some of these jurisdictions the
gross program expenses were higher, but were partially offset by annual registration and/or
petition fees.

d. Jurisdictions with no estimate of the cost of their mobilehome space rent control
program.

In 8 jurisdictions, staff did not provide an estimate of the time spent on program
administration. However, discussions with staff members indicated that in these jurisdictions the
program expenses were usually under $20,000.°

In 3 jurisdictions, the law was not in effect throughout the 1993-94 fiscal year. In one
jurisdiction park owners and mobilehome owners signed a city-drafted rent agreement in-lieu of
rent control.

In 2 jurisdictions, the mobilehome rent control program was combined with the apartment rent
control program and it was not self-financing.

e. Overall Cost of Programs including Costs Covered by Program Fees

Program revenues were approximately $650,000.'° If the expenditures covered by these fees
are added to program costs, the overall costs of the programs is in the range of $2.1 million."'

Appendix A contains a table which summarizes the expenses, revenues, and funding sources
for each program. The chart on the following page summarizes the number of programs which
fall within the different ranges of costs.

9 Where information was incomplete, it was commonly due to the inability to obtain information from one staff
member who had contributed a portion of the total administrative time devoted to administering the program. Often,
the administrator of the program indicated that the other staff member, from whom information was not available,
had not contributed a substantial amount of time.

10 This estimate is computed by adding the individual program revenues listed in the table in Appendix A and
adding $57,000 for revenues generated by the annual space fees under San Jose’s program.

'l This estimate is computed by adding the total expenses for each jurisdiction, which are listed in the table
in Appendix A. In addition, $3,000 is added for each of the programs with “minimal” costs and $57,000 is added
for San Jose, based on its annual space fee of $5.75 covering approximately 10,000 spaces.

4
