since that time, we have had the release of ondansetron and its analogues, which
have greatly reduced the emesis caused by potent chemotherapy drugs. Add to this
the use of steroids, lorazepam, and metaclopramide, which have changed the way we
treat nausea and vomiting related to chemotherapy drugs.

Pain treatment over the last decade has changed vastly with the availability
of Duragesic Patches, newer morphine derivatives, and epidural pain medications.
The emergence of pain clinics has also changed this treatment.

Appetite stimulation and well-being are helped in some patients by the use of
steroids and Megace. Additionally, the synthetic THC (Marinol), which contains the
active psycho-active ingredient in marijuana, has been available since 1985 for
emesis and since 1993 as an appetite stimulant. The knock on it is that it is a
pill. Many of these patients have trouble with pills due to existing nausea and
difficulty swallowing pills, but it also should be pointed out that many of these
same patients preferred the use of marijuana before they needed antiemetics. In
other words, they were smoking marijuana before they needed therapy for medical
problems. I have not seen a good Scientific study that showed marijuana was better
than Marinol. In my group practice of seven oncologists, ee ioce patient has asked
for marijuana in the past year.

With regard to the use of marijuana for glaucoma, multiple sclerosis, and
other indications, multiple national societies such as National Multiple Sclerosis
Society, American Glaucoma Society, and American Academy of Ophthalmology have
reported no benefit and I have not found a local ophthalmologist or neurologist who
has disagreed with this.

Another little known fact is that Proposition 215 does not require a written
prescription -- anyone with an oral recommendation or approval of a physician can
grow, possess, or make marijuana. This strikes me as highly irresponsible. One of

the more vocal proponents of this measure has been Grinspoon who has been quoted as
