ANALYSIS OF INITIATIVE TEXT

ACTUAL TEXT
TITLE & SUMMARY

AN INITIATIVE MEASURE TO BE
SUBMITTED DIRECTLY TO THE
VOTERS

The Attorney General of California
has prepared the following title and summary
of the chief purpose and points of the proposed
measure:

MOBILEHOME RENT ASSISTANCE.

MOBILEHOME RENT CONTROL
RESTRICTIONS. INITIATIVE
STATUTE.

Requires mobilehome park management to
administer and provide rent subsidy equal to
ten percent discount on monthly rent to
tenants meeting residency and income
requirements, when ten percent or less of
occupied spaces are covered by rent control or
rent subsidy. Establishes priorities for, and
conditions for losing, rent subsidy. Invalidates
existing, and prohibits new, state mobilehome
rent control laws. Limits existing, and
prohibits new, local mobilehome rent control
laws. Prohibits such laws from requiring
reductions in rent and limiting increases in
rent to less than specified cost of living index.
Summary of estimate by Legislative Analyst
and Director of Finance of fiscal impact on
state and local governments: No impact on
state costs or revenues. In the near term, cities
and counties may experience increased costs
which are unknown, but are not likely to total
more than millions of dollars annually. In the
long term, local agencies would experience
savings in the range of millions to tens of
millions of dollars annually.

California law requires that any Initiative which
appears on the ballot contain a “Title” which
describes it, together with a brief summary of the
“chief purpose and points” which it contains.
The Title and Summary is perhaps the most
important part of the entire Initiative, since it is
often the only thing that people read. Its
language is descriptive only, and does not
become part of the law if the Initiative passes.

The Title & Summary is prepared by the
Attorney General. It is supposed to be neutral in
its description, and also contains the all important
“fiscal analysis.” As of June 1, 1995, GSMOL
has submitted a request to the Attorney General
to re-write the Title & Summary.

The Title & Summary reveals some interesung
points. First, note the progression. The rent
assistance is described first, to make it look as if
that is the primary purpose of the Initianve. The
objective is to lull the voter into thinking that this
shall actually help mobilehome residents. Then
comes the real purpose of the Initiative - the end
of all mobilehome rent control. It doesn’t sound
quite as bad after the subsidy is first descnbed.
Think of this as the “velvet hammer” strategy

Second, notice the fiscal analysis, which
identifies potential savings “in the range of
millions to tens of millions of dollars annually.”
Money shall become a key factor in the decision-
making process of the average voter. Voters
shall be told that because the City has to pay for
rent control, there are less tax dollars available
for fire or police protection. But the truth is that °
most mobilehome rent ordinances are self-
funded, either in whole or in part, by park owners
and residents.

PAGE A-l
