What Bond Measure BB Would Bring to Westwood Charter

Bond Measure BB is a General Obligation Bond measure placed on the ballot
by LAUSD. If passed by a two-third's majority of voters living in LAUSD, this
measure will finance repair and renovation of LA's aging schools, 60% of which
are over 40 years old. Each school has signed a contract with LAUSD
identifying the specific projects to be funded. So what's on Westwood's wish
list?

The largest single item in Westwood's contract is air conditioning for 24
classrooms and the main office. Visit any classroom in the main buildings on a
hot spring day and you'll find a sea of whirring fans, vainly trying to keep our
children cool enough to concentrate. If passed, the bond measure would
provide an estimated $440,000 to rectify this urgent need.

A second major element is playground resurfacing. The bond would provide
$300,000 to replace Westwood's cracked asphalt -- no more mowing the tufts
of grass on the playground! Other planned repairs include replacing missing
or broken ceiling tiles throughout the school, re-roofing the buildings, and
replacing obsolete lighting and deteriorated carpeting. Westwood's current
buildings opened in 1958, and 35-plus years of wear and tear need attention.
Estimated cost of these additional repairs in $300,000.

A third major area addressed in the contract is renovation required for
Westwood's technology program. Rewiring throughout the school is needed
to enable networking classroom, lab and office computers. Networked
computers would allow teachers and students to communicate on-line,
classroom to classroom, a major step forward for Westwood's already cutting
edge computer program. A price tag has not yet been determined for this
important item, but passage of the $2.4 billion bond measure would allow the
District to fund all planned projects. Failure of the proposal would mean long
waits for alternative funding for these projects.

Parents have inquired about the cost of the bond to homeowners. The district
estimates that in the first year property owners will pay about $15 for each
$100,000 of assessed valuation of their home (which is often lower than the
market value). Over the 25-year life of the bond, the cost will average about
$40 per year per $100,000 assessed valuation, which works out to about a
dime a day. The contract with each school specifying work to be done is
binding, and if the bond measure passes it must be honored regardless of any
future changes in the Board of Education or LAUSD itself. An oversight
committee made up of school facilities experts, financial advisors, community
leaders and a construction management team will monitor all work to ensure
that it is completed on time and within. budget. Additional questions or
concerns regarding this issue can be addressed to Julie Heath Elliott at (310)
397-1078 or Marcia Sutter at (310) 559-2031.

Reprinted from The Westwood Window
