nature of an issue to define the governmental decision-
making structure’ in such a way as to impose ‘substantial
and unique burdens on racial minorities.”

In summarizing these two decisions, Professor Varat
notes, ‘skewing the political process against minorities is
akin to denying them an equal right to vote.’ In Hunter,
the court rejected a voter-approved measure that required
the city council and a majority of voters to approve any
ordinance barring housing discrimination on the basis of
race or religion. In Seattle, which was decided 5 to 4, the
court rejected a statewide initiative that effectively
prohibited local school districts from mandating busing
plans. Voters had approved the initiative after the school
district in Seattle enacted a desegregation busing plan.

Professor Grodin guessed the Supreme Court would find
grounds for distinguishing the Seattle case from a
challenge to the CCRI. Professor Varat suggested
grounds for distinguishing Hunter and Seattle from a
challenge to the CCRI could be found in Crawford v. Los
Angeles Board of Education, which was decided the same
day as the Seattle decision. In Crawford, the court upheld
a voter-approved initiative placed on the ballot by the
Legislature that amended the state Constitution to
prohibit the state’s courts from ordering busing unless
needed to remedy federal equal protection violations.
This initiative was passed after a California court had
imposed a mandatory student reassignment and busing
plan in Los Angeles that was not required by federal law.
The Supreme Court in Crawford found no violation of the
equal protection clause in the repeal of race-related
legislation or policies that were not required by the
federal Constitution in the first place.

Professor Landsberg believed the Seattle case would
control and the CCRI ban would be found
unconstitutional on its face. However, he noted, the
Romer v. Evans case now on appeal to the U.S. Supreme
Court could change this constitutional interpretation. -

In the Romer case, the Colorado Supreme Court
invalidated a Colorado initiative that amended the
Colorado Constitution to forbid state or local governments
