HEALTH

THE NATURAL LAW PARTY is commit-
ted to ensuring a long and healthy life for every
American. By bringing life into accord with natu-
ral law, the prevention-oriented health programs
proposed by the Natural Law Party will signifi-
cantly reduce disease and promote the health and
vitality of all Americans. ‘As-our nation’s health
é f E Ith
care. costs, thus freeing our nation’s resources for
greater progress and prosperity.

THE PROBLEM

Too many Americans suffer from poor health [1]:
the U.S. has some of the worst health statistics
of all industrialized countries [2]. Yet America
has the highest per capita health care costs of
any nation—more than $1 trillion, and growing.

Why is the U.S. medical system such a cost-

effectiveness disaster? The answer is that our

sys is

~tem—it focuses on the management of illnesses,
rather than on the prevention of disease and the

‘promotion of health. But the vast majority of

our national health is influenced by factors over
which this disease-based approach has little con-
trol—such as nutrition, stress, societal problems,
and environmental toxins. Consequently, in the
absence of effective prevention, our present dis-
ease-care system can never create a truly healthy
society.

Recent research shows that 50% of deaths and
70% of disease in America are self-inflicted—
caused by an epidemic of unhealthy habits,
including improper diet, inadequate exercise,
smoking, and alcohol abuse [3]. Thus, the vast
majority of disease is preventable [4].

Incredibly, Republicans and Democrats consis-
tently ignore proven prevention-oriented
approaches to health, and Medicare specifically
bans funding for such preventive services [5].
Following the federal example, most private

health insurance companies also refuse to cover
prevention. No health care reform bills debated
in Congress have focused on improving health;
they have dealt only with problems in disease-
care financing and delivery, hoping to save
money by streamlining and downsizing the sys-
tem.

Spiraling health care costs have dramatically
increased the cost of health insurance, and 35%
of U.S. citizens are now inadequately covered
or have no medical insurance. Health care
expenditures have also placed a heavy burden
on American businesses; if employee insurance
costs continue to rise, many companies will col-
lapse by the end of the decade.

THE SOLUTION

By focusing on the prevention of disease and
the promotion of health, the Natural Law Party
offers a solution to the health care crisis that is
comprehensive, cost-effective, and scientifically
proven.

Our health care platform has two aspects.

1. We support health strategies that focus on pre-
vention and strengthen the general health of the
nation, thereby shifting our national focus from
disease care to health care. These programs in-
clude prevention-oriented health education, in-
cluding strategies to modify unhealthy behav-
iors, and prevention-oriented natural medicines.
These preventive strategies have been shown by
extensive research to create healthier citizens and
to cut health care costs by 50% to 70%.

2. We support the introduction of financial in-
centives that will help prevent abuse of the health
care system and ensure high-quality care. These
incentives include (a) medical savings accounts
for Medicare and Medicaid subscribers, which
will provide financial rewards for good health
[6]; and (b) vouchers enabling Medicare and

€
k

HEALTH IILATEORM

Medicaid subscribers to choose any insurance
plan or health care provider they desire, thereby
promoting competitive costs and quality of care
among medical providers. Such financial incen-
tives will reduce demands for unnecessary care
and prevent overuse of the health care system
by giving greater financial control and respon-
sibility to individual subscribers.

Through our two-pronged approach of preven-
tive health care and financial incentives, we can
rescue Medicare and Medicaid from bankruptcy,
save the nation approximately $500 billion a
year in health care costs, and prevent untold pain
and suffering.

To structure meaningful health-benefits options
for all Americans without disastrously increas-
ing the federal budget deficit, we must respon-
sibly decrease health care outlays per person—
a particular challenge as the population ages.
The most effective and humane way to achieve
this goal is to prevent disease in the first place
by strengthening the human immune system and
eliminating the imbalances that ultimately cause
disease.

The prevention programs supported by the Natu-
ral Law Party incorporate the most up-to-date
knowledge of nutrition, exercise, and stress re-
duction, as well as use of natural herbal prepa-
rations, natural dietary supplements, and alter-

native medical treatment modalities. Americans

favor such approaches. There are now more vis-
its to alternative medicine practitioners than to
conventional doctors [7]. Research has consis-
tently shown that the prevention programs en-
dorsed by the Natural Law Party significantly
reduce the need for conventional medical treat-
ment by empowering individuals to take better
care of their own health [8].

Our national health care debate has degenerated
into an argument over “who should pay for
whose disease,” with little attention given to pre-
venting disease and improving health. Funding
for proven prevention services has been denied

to Americans, largely because the lobbying in-
fluence of over 1000 medical PACs (political ac-
tion committees) has shaped legislation and pre-
served the status quo [9].

The Natural Law Party, which does not accept
PAC contributions, is committed to changing this
unethical and inhumane situation. During the
past four years, Dr. John Hagelin and Dr. Mike
Tompkins, 1996 Natural Law Party candidates
for President and Vice-President, have worked
closely with the U.S. Congress to introduce
wording into health care bills in both the House
and the Senate that would provide coverage for
any scientifically verified, cost-effective, proven
preventive program. This proposal has such
commonsense appeal that it has gained the sup-
port of conservative and liberal members of Con-
gress alike.

.The Natural Law Party’s approach to health care

provides a unifying influence in the political
debate by transcending surface bickering over
money and solving the health crisis at its basis—
by improving the health of Americans. The enor-
mous savings generated by the Natural Law
Party’s prevention-oriented programs, coupled
with the financial incentives created by medical
vouchers and savings accounts, will allow the
government to realistically extend high-quality
health care to tens of millions of uninsured
Americans.

The programs of preventive health education
advocated by the Natural Law Party are also
unique in raising health care to a new level: de-
velopment of the full potential of every citizen
and reduction of individual and societal stress
by promoting life in accord with natural law. This
approach goes beyond “behavioral modifica-
tions” such as smoking cessation, which have
low compliance and cannot be enforced in a free
society. Research shows that stress is responsible
for the persistence of life-damaging habits de-
spite overwhelming medical evidence and gov-
ernmental warnings. By neutralizing individual
