Campaign to Defeat 209

Co-Sponsored by National & State Business, Labor and Community Organizations

PROPOSITION 299 CLAUSE ‘C’ LOOPHOLE

WEAKENS PROTECTIONS FOR WOMEN AGAINST
DISCRIMINATION

Clause (c) lowers the constitutional protection given to women and girls and as a result constitutionally
authorizes discrimination.

Clause (c) of Proposition 209 is the third clause in this initiative. [t modifies the meaning of what constitutes
gender discrimination under the first clause, Clause (a). By modifying Clause (a), Clause (c) directly changes
she language and meaning of Article 1 §7 & §8 - and therefore changes constitutional protections for women.

Tause (c) reads as follows:

“Nothing in this section shail be interpreted as prohibiting bona fide qualifications based on sex
which are reasonably necessary to the normal operation of public employment, public education
or public contracting.” Proposition 209 (c).

HOW PROPOSITION 209 EFFECTS THE CALIFORNIA CONSTITUTION

A. The devastating impact of Clause C is that it extends and expands an extremely narrow exception to
discrimination currently available only in the area of employment law. This exception was created by
the 1964 Civil Rights Act and is called a""Bona Fide Occupational Qualification" or BFOQ. Clause
(c) uses the term "bona fide qualification" or BFQ, clearly omitting the term occupational which the
Supreme Court has used to narrow and limit the use of this exception.

e The Supreme Court has interpreted the term occupational very narrowly to mean the
that the job qualification must relate to the very essence of the employment.

e Using the.term BFQ without occupaticnal grants power to the courts to expand where
this defense can be used and expressly permits discrimination against women and girls.

e Under Proposition 209 a BFQ can be used in areas of public education and contracting
expanding it well past its current limited use in employment. Neither federal nor state

law provide an exception to discrimination like a BFOQ in the areas of contracting or education. —> 77
B. The second destructive element of Clause (c) is that it would lower the level of constitutional protection

for women by using a reasonableness test in evaluating gender-based classifications. Currently, under
the California Constitution gender is a suspect classification and must survive a strict scrutiny test,
the highest in the country -- giving California women the equivalent of an Equal Rights Amendment.

e The California Supreme Court in 1972 decided the case of Sail'er [nn v. Kirby which

Camonign to Dereat 299

Li Gece: Saar Gece ; sere?

