DOLE KEMP

JACK KEMP

Jack Kemp currently is co-director of Empower America, a public policy and advocacy
organization he co-founded in 1993 with William Bennet and Ambassador Jeane Kirkpatrick.
Empower America is dedicated to three founding principles: expanding freedom and democratic
capitalism, promoting policies to expand economic growth and entrepreneurship for our nation;
and advancing social policies which empower people, not government bureaucracies.

Prior to founding Empower America, Mr. Kemp served for four years as Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development, and proved to be one of our nation’s most innovative leaders
in that role. He was the first and strongest advocate of Enterprise Zones to encourage
entrepreneurship and job creation in urban America and of expanding homeownership among the
poor through resident management and ownership of public housing.

In March, 1995, Senator Bob Dole and Speaker Newt Gingrich put Jack Kemp at the
center of the tax and economic debate for the ‘96 campaign by naming him chairman of the
National Commission on Economic Growth and Tax Reform to study how major restructuring of
our tax code can help unleash the entrepreneurial spirit of Americans, grow the economy without
inflation and create greater opportunity for people to escape poverty.

Mr. Kemp also serves as a Distinguished Fellow at the Heritage Foundation, on the Board
of Directors of Habitat for Humanity, and was recently elected to the Board of Howard
University in Washington, D.C. In addition, he has been selected as Domestic Policy Committee
Chairman of the International Democratic Union, a worldwide organization of political leaders of
the “center-right,” dedicated to advancing the cause of democracy, freedom, and free market
economics.

Before his appointment to the Cabinet, Mr. Kemp represented the Buffalo area and
Western New York for 18 years in the United States House of Representatives from 1971 to
1989. He served for seven years in the Republican Leadership as Chairman of the House
Republican Leadership Conference.

Jack Kemp came to Congress after 13 years as a professional football quarterback. He
was captain of the San Diego Chargers from 1960 to 1962 and also of the Buffalo Bills, the team
he helped lead to the American Football League championship in 1964 and 1965 when he was
named the league’s most valuable player. He also co-founded the AFL Players Association and
was five times elected president.

Mr. Kemp, born and raised in Los Angeles, is married to the former Joanne Main of
Fillmore, California. Both Jack and Joanne are graduates of Occidental College. They have four
children, Jeffrey, Jennifer, Judith and James, eleven grandchildren, and reside in Bethesda,
Maryland.

Authorized and paid for by Dole/Kemp ‘96, Robert E. Lighthizer, Treasurer
810 First Street, Northeast * Suite 300 ¢ Washington, DC 20002 ¢ (202) 414-6400
