Right to Vote on Taxes Act

Page 12

(2)

The agency shall conduct a public hearing upon the proposed fee
or charge not less than 45 days after mailing the notice of the
proposed fee or charge to the record owners of each identified
parcel upon which the fee or charge is proposed for imposition.
At the public hearing, the agency shall consider all protests
against the proposed fee or charge. If written protests against
the proposed fee or charge are presented by a majority of owners
of the identified parcels, the agency shall not impose the fee or
charge.

[Annotation: Votes on property fees are not weighted in the same manner as
assessments because to do so would be administratively costly. A simple majority
of fee payers can stop a fee proposal.]

(b) Requirements for Existing, New or Increased Fees and Charges. A fee
or charge shall not be extended, imposed or increased by any agency
unless it meets all of the following requirements:

[Annotation: These five requirements are applicable to all fees, including those that
currently exist. In essence, these requirements mandate that fees not exceed the

‘cost of service. ]

(1)

(2)

Revenues derived from the fee or charge shall not exceed the
funds required to provide the property related service.

Revenues derived from the fee or charge shall not be used for any
purpose other than that for which the fee or charge was imposed.

[Annotation: Requirements 1 & 2 will prohibit a current practice of siphoning off fee
revenue to supplement a city’s general fund. This currently occurs both in Los
Angeles and Sacramento.]

(3)

The amount of a fee or charge imposed upon any parcel or person
as an incident of property ownership shall not exceed the
proportional cost of the service attributable to the parcel.

[Annotation: Under the initiative, fees, just like assessments, must be proportional.]

(4)

No fee or charge may be imposed for a service unless that service
is actually used by, or immediately available to, the owner of the
property in question. Fees or charges based on potential or future
use of a service are not permitted. Standby charges, whether
