/ The Assessment Process Under Current Law Compared to the
Assessment Process Under Proposition 218 — An Example

Example of a Proposed Property Assessment

City X proposes to levy a street lighting assessment under the Landscaping and Lighting
Act. The size of the proposed assessment district is 10,000 acres, consisting of 25,000
parcels of property.

The Assessment Process Under Current Law

City X must hold at least one public meeting and public hearing on the proposed
assessment. Notice of the proposed assessment must be given by mail to the 25,000
property owners subject to the proposed assessment.

NO election is required. However, property owners subject to the proposed assessment
may file a written protest against the assessment, but City X is not required to provide a
protest form. City X must abandon the proposed assessment if there is a majority protest.
A majority protest exists if, upon the conclusion of the public hearing, written protests filed
represent property owners owning more than 50 percent of the total area of assessable lands
within the proposed assessment district. In the example, this corresponds to the 5,000 acres
of assessable lands within the proposed district (an absolute majority of the 10,000 acre size
of the district).

Only property owners may file a written protest against the assessment. This includes
nonresident property owners. Renters have no right to file a protest. Each protest is
weighted according to the size of the parcel, without regard to the amount of assessment
paid or the use of the property. Under current law, if a property owner does not file a
written protest, it is counted as though the owner supports the assessment. This inequity
makes it extremely difficult to legally block an assessment.

The Assessment Process Under Proposition 218 (The Right to Vote on Taxes Act)

City X must hold at least one public hearing on the proposed assessment. Notice of the
proposed assessment must be given by mail to the 25,000 property owners subject to the
proposed assessment.

An election is required. City X must include a ballot on the proposed assessment with the
mailed notice. City X must abandon the proposed assessment if there is a majority protest.
A majority protest exists if, upon the conclusion of the public hearing, a majority of those
submitting ballots oppose the assessment. Ballots are weighted according to the amount of
assessment owed by each parcel (rather than by the size of the parcel under the current
protest procedure).

Property owners and renters directly liable to pay the proposed assessment may cast ballots.
As is the case under current law, nonresident property owners may participate. Ifa
property owner does not submit a ballot, it counts neither for nor against the proposed
assessment, which is consistent with standard voting practice. The determination of
majority protest is based only on those ballots actually submitted. This is a more reasonable
standard which will make it easier to block an assessment.
