That’s what we need, to enthrall our younger generation
with the new possibilities of learning. Discipline and
punishment alone will never reduce the widespread apathy,
the drug and alcohol use, and the dropout rates that afflict
our schools today.

As part of my dream I see college students coming back to
the public schools as part of a California Service Corps to
tutor and help youngsters with their homework and try to
reduce those rates of dropping out and drug addiction.

I see those college students becoming the leadership link
with the next generation. Not only white students of
Generation X, in search of meaning beyond the malls, but a
human rainbow of all colors emerging front our campuses
to lead California into the age of the Pacific Rim, the
Information Revolution and that of Ecological Sustainability.

The second message of my dream is that cultural diversity —

is a great gift, a great strength, not a reality to be feared.

Many are threatened by the evolution of California as a
multicultural state. As Joel Kotkin has written, “a large
part of the ‘decline of California’ mythology revolves around
the theory that a multicultural ‘majority’ minority state is
by its very nature incapable of competing in the new global
economy.”

If this pessimism is correct, there is no future for California,
since three-quarters of the students in the Los Angeles school
system are of minority background and one-half the labor
force will be non-white. in the year 2000.

But there is a more optimistic dream. California can become

the multicultural capital of the “new world order,” sitting

6 Politics of the Spirit - A Dream of California

astride the vast new routes of commerce and immigration
stretching from East Asia to Central America. California
exported to these areas at twice the national average in the
past two years, generating $80 billion. Already 500,000
Californians are employed in trade, their numbers growing
at 20,000 yearly.

As Kotkin points out, the numbers of minorities qualifying
for university admission has grown dramatically in the last
decade. Despite continuing racism, the number of businesses
owned by African-Americans, Latinos and Asians in Los
Angeles is the largest in the country, with twice the revenues
of New York’s. And California has the largest number of
women-owned businesses in the United States.

This is a tumultuous transition which also contains dangerous
possibilities arising from racial conflict and vast economic
disparities. While women and minorities compose the vast
majority of our workforce, only 5 percent hold top jobs.
Instead of attempting to lead California through its transition
to a multicultural state, too often our elected officials
reinforce or ignore these disparities.

No.one supports illegal immigration. But is illegal
immigration best reduced by inflaming a symbolic and
unwinnable military conflict with immigrants at the border,
or by investing in employment in less-developed nations
like Mexico and enforcing the laws against exploitation of
immigrant labor here?

Illegal immigrants serve the needs of certain employers for
cheap labor in agriculture, hotels, restaurants and the garment
industry. These industries give hundreds of thousands of
dollars in campaign contributions to politicians to turn their
eyes and enforcement power from the inhuman and illegal

Politics of the Spirit - A Dream of California 7
