GOALS & JUSTIFICATIONS:
THE MORAL ROOTS OF AFFIRMATIVE ACTION

Affirmative action programs are created for a variety of reasons and serve a variety of purposes.
Fundamentally, affirmative action programs embrace the following four goals and justifications:

COMPENSATORY JUSTICE
DISTRIBUTIVE JUSTICE
SOCIAL UTILITY
DIVERSITY

Since some of these goals and justifications are often overlooked or misunderstood, it is
important to consider what each means:

COMPENSATORY JUSTICE A fundamental tenet of the American conception of justice is that
people deserve to be compensated for the wrongs they have suffered. Affirmative action programs are
one way of providing such compensation. Affirmative action policies that seek compensatory justice do
not grant benefits to people of color or White women simply because of their race, ethnicity or gender.
Instead, these people are offered opportunities because they are likely to have been victimized by
discrimination, they are likely to bear greater burdens than others. Simply being of color or being a
woman is not the critical factor, it is the ugly historical and current realities associated with being a
person of color or with being a woman that are most salient. Since past and current discrimination
have figured so prominently in our society, affirmative action seeks to address both types of
discrimination.

Past Discrimination Affirmative action attempts to remedy past discrimination because
today's society is a direct product of our past. The unfortunate reality is that the effects of
discrimination do not disappear once the offensive behavior or attitude has been identified. Therefore,
compensation is appropriate for people who have borne unfair burdens in the past. The most frequently
cited example of such an unfair burden is the three hundreds years of slavery endured by African
Americans. Less discussed burdens have been borne by other groups as well. Until the first part of
this century, women were explicitly barred by law from voting, owning property or entering certain
occupations. American Indians were driven off their ancestral lands and confined to reservations.
Almost all Asian Americans were denied the right to become citizens until 1952. During the
Depression, and again in the 1950s, the U.S. government deported hundreds of thousands of Latinos
(without regard to their citizenship) to cut down on welfare costs; many of those deported were from
families that have lived in the southwestern part of the United States for more than four hundred years.
The effects of these, and other, events of past discrimination continue to limit opportunities for White
women and people of color. Centuries of damage simply cannot be repaired in just a few decades, but
affirmative action is one important step on the road to recovery.

Current Discrimination Despite the progress of the past three decades, discrimination
continues to limit opportunities for millions of men of color and women of every color. Current
discrimination is particularly apparent in the wage gap between White men and all other people. For
every dollar earned by White men, Black men earn 72¢, White women earn 71¢, Latinos earn 65¢,

Presented by the
UCLA School of Law Affirmative Action
Outreach, Education & Organizing Project

For More Information, Please E-Mail Us at “Mattson@Law3.Law.UCLA.Edu"
& Visit Our Affirmative Action Homepage at “htt p://www.law.ucla.edu/Class/Archive/CivAA/" 2
