ADAM SCHIF FA proven prosecutor.

With six years experience as a Federal Criminal Prosecutor, we
can count on Adam Schiff to be tough on crime. Adam Schiff
prosecuted drug traffickers, illegal alien smugglers, corrupt
government officials - even a Soviet spy. And he never lost a
case. Adam Schiff supports the death penalty and Three
Strikes, as well as effective anti-drug and anti-gang programs.
He will make reforming our failed juvenile justice system a top
priority. Adam Schiff is endorsed by over 50,000 rank and file
police officers and the California Police Chiefs Association.

ADAM SCHIF F. A voice for our schools.

Picea sare maestro A ST TS ETL IE

Adam Schiff is committed to our public schools. Over the years,
Adam Schiff has used his experience as a prosecutor to help
train new police officers, and is now an Adjunct Professor at a
local community college. Adam also volunteers as a Mock Trial
Coach at Burbank High School. Adam Schiff will work to make
our schools the best in the nation again.

Adam Schiff believes our schools should teach the two “Rs” of
Respect and Responsibility, along with the three “Rs” of
Reading, Writing and Arithmetic. Adam Schiff is endorsed by
our local classroom teachers.

ADAM SCHIFF. Environmental leade

REE ATI FT ET

hip.

ST

As a prosecutor, Adam Schiff helped pioneer the prosecution of
illegal toxic dumpers and created the Environmental Crime Task
Force. He also served on the Environmental Leadership Forum
of the League of Conservation Voters. Adam Schiff will fight to
protect our health by stopping attempts to weaken our state’s
clean air and drinking water standards. He will oppose efforts to
allow more pesticide contamination of our food. Adam Schiff is
strongly supported by the Sierra Club and the League of
Conservation Voters.

ADAM SCHIFF.
A commitment to our community.

TS SR

Adam Schiff lives in our community, is actively involved in our
community, and understands our neighborhood issues. His
Republican opponent, Paula Boland, lives in Northridge and
represents that area in the Assembly. She is only running in our
community because term limits prevent her from running for
re-election in her own community. Paula Boland doesn’t care
about our neighborhoods - she’s just trying to stay in office.

That’s why 26 local City Council members and School Board
members, Democrats, Republicans and independents are
supporting Adam Schiff for State Senate.

ADAM SCHIFF.
Endorsed by our police officers,
firefighters ‘and teachers.

— cs
Our local police officers, firefighters and teachers need leaders
in the state legislature who will fight for safer streets and better
schools. That’s why they carefully studied the candidates for
State Senate. They reviewed their records and their positions
on the issues. And virtually all of them have decided to support
Adam Schiff. Of the 16 local police officer,
firefighter and teacher organizations that
have made endorsements, 15 are
supporting Adam.

Our Senate District has never been
represented by a Democrat. Adam
Schiff is the kind of moderate
Democrat with broad bi-partisan
support who can win in our
community. As our State Senator,
Adam Schiff will be able to work with
the Clinton Administration to help
make our community a better place to
live and raise a family.

