Vl 10 REASONS TO VOTE YES!

for the Personal Responsibility Act of 1996

Proposition 213, the Personal Responsibility Act of 1996, takes the profit
out of crime and makes the system fair for people who obey the law. Heré
are just ten of the many reasons why it deserves your support NOW!

PROPOSITION 213:

1. Fixes a system which rewards people who break the law by holding them accountable for
their irresponsible actions.

. Protects everyone’s rights to be compensated for medical and out-of-pocket expenses.
Protects law-abiding citizens who play by the rules by prohibiting people who break the
law from receiving outrageous monetary awards above and beyond medical costs,
material damages and lost wages.

. Stops drunk drivers and uninsured drivers from collecting so-called “pain and suffering”

awards in auto collisions at the expense of law-abiding drivers and puts them on
notice to act responsibly and obey the law.

. Prohibits convicted felons from suing law-abiding citizens, businesses and governments

if they are accidentally injured while committing a crime or fleeing from the crime of which
they have been convicted.

. Ensures that law-abiding citizens are not held responsible twice -- first for driving sober

and spending hundreds of dollars every year to carry insurance -- and second by
rewarding illegal behavior with huge monetary awards.

. Reduces private auto insurance costs in California by more than $300 million.

. Helps low-income families and individuals by reducing insurance costs and making
insurance more affordable.

. Stops convicted felons from filing ridiculous lawsuits.

. SAYS PEOPLE WHO BREAK THE LAW SHOULD NOT BE REWARDED, WHILE
LAW ABIDING CITIZENS PICK UP THE TAB.

-Is sponsored by Insurance Commissioner Chuck Quackenbush, and has the support of
Mothers Against Drunk Drivers, California Police Chiefs Association. the California
Association of Highway Patrolmen, Doris Tate Crime Victims Bureau, California Peace
Officers’ Association, League of California Cities. Peace Officers Research Association of
California, California State Sheriffs’ Association, League of California Cities, the Los
Angeles Chamber of Commerce. the California District Attorneys Association

Association for California Tort Reform and many more
