K-12 Education

Americans Are Spending More on
Education and Getting Less

Bob Dole is a strong believer in America’s public education
system. He, his wife and his daughter were educated in public
schools. But today, too many public schools have been taken
over by an education monopoly that fails to give our children
the skills they need to compete in our global economy

Two out of every three 17-year-olds do not knew that World
War Il was fought sometime between 1900 and 1950, according
to a study by the National Assessment of Educational Progress.
The study also reports that 20 percent of high school seniors
are functionally illiterate. .

Just throwing money at the problem is not the answer. in the
past 30 years, per-pupil spending on education has doubled,
yet average SAT scores have dropped over 50 points.

Bob Dole Will Empower Low- and Middle-
Income Parents With School Choice

As President, Bob Dole will create Opportunity Scholarships
for Children, a federal, state and local effort to give four million
low. and middle-income families the ability to select the best
schools for their children

+ Opportunity Scholarships for Children will be funded annually
with $2.5 billion in federal funds. Four-year competitive grants
will be awarded to children from low- and middle-income families
in up to 15 states, including the District of Columbia. States will
match the federal contribution.

+ Opportunity Scholarships will be at least $1,000 for
kindergarten and grade school students and at least $1,500
fer high school students. These scholarships could be larger
with the added support from non-federal sources.

+ Families can use these scholarships to send their children to
any lawtully operating school — public, private or religious —
that chooses to participate. Scholarship funds will be used to
Pay tuition, school fees and other reasonable expenses.

* This program will help fund scholarships for more than four
million children — nearly 10 percent of all children in elementary
and secondary schools.

+ This new §2.5 billion federal commitment toAmenca’s children
'$ budget neutral and will not increase the federal deficit. The
funding offsets include reducing the Department of Education
overhead, bureaucracy and wasteful spending.

Bill Clinton Fights for His Political Supporters —
Not Our Children

Bill Clinton's opposes school choice because he puts the
interests of the educational establishment — and of his party's
political contributors — above the interests of our children
Clinton has continually fought school choice because he and
his Democratic colleagues received $2.2 million from the
movement's biggest opponent — the National Education
Association (NEA) — during the 1992 campaign. That is 17
times more money than they gave to Republicans.

In an address to the NEA before the election, Bill Clinton said
that if he became President, “you will be my partners. | won't
{make] education decisions that you're not a Part of making |
won't forget the people that brought me to the White House.”

Since then, Bill Clinton has done everything in his power to kill
the school choice movement. Even when Bob Dole tried to
Pass a modest school-choice bill for the District of Columbia to
help low-income families send their children to decent schools,
Bill Clinton opposed it. Meanwhile, he sends his daughter to
one of the most expensive private schools in Washington.

Bill Clinton is on the side of education's providers — the
teacher's unions, the bureaucrats and everyone else who wants
to fight for the status quo. Bob Dole is on the side of education
consumers — the parents and the children.

A Better America
in Bob Dole’s America, low- and middle-income parents will be

given a real choice in education so that all American children
have an equal opportunity to achieve their dreams.

p ee

wurts to dismiss frivolous
lawsuits that clog up the legal system and hurt America’s
entrepreneurs. But trial lawyers — many of them large
contributors to Bill Clinton's re-election — persuaded Bill Clinton
to veto the bill. Bob Dole led the Senate in successfully
overriding Bill Clinton's veto — a bipartisan vote that proved
how extreme Bill Clinton's position was.

The act, now law due to Bob Dole’s leadership:

+ Makes it easier for courts to dismiss frivolous securities
lawsuits.

* Puts control of lawsuits in the hands of the investors — not
the trial lawyers.

and paid for om DuleiKer:n 96. Roher:
ite S00 * Lamington, OC 2002 © 202}

htmeer irrasurer

