Santa Mouica Police Officers’
& Fe Ly lil 1 "bse ° téo

POST OFFICE BOX 2160 SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA 90407-2160

Dea

Your police officers, paramedics, firefighters and our most unique City need your help on Tuesday,
November 5th. Your commitment to vote insures that our elected officials will continue to follow the course
of action that you feel is in Santa Monica’s best interest.

There have been a lot of positive changes over the past two years: Palisades Park, 3rd Street Promenade,
Lincoln Park, Santa Monica Pier and the homeless issues. It is important that we not slip backwards. You
can make an important difference in these policy making decisions by casting your vote for the council
candidates that are committed to keeping your safety and protection their top priorities.

Members of both the fire and police associations have interviewed the council candidates and we have
endorsed the following candidates:

Frank Schwengel Kelly Olsen

Commissioner Councilmember 1990 - 1994
Ken Genser Asha Greenberg
Councilmember Mayor Pro-Tem

These candidates continue to show commitment and selfless dedication to all of us. They give countless hours
of their time with only one goal in mind, a better City. They will work together to insure that Santa Monica
is second to none in the services you receive.

We would also ask you to join with our endorsed candidates and vote YES on Measure "EE". All major
political groups in Santa Monica are supporting the construction of this vitally important Public Safety
Building.

Did you know that our 911 Emergency phone system failed during the 1994 earthquake? Did you know that
over 450 employees work in a space designed for 200 people? There are no public restrooms nor access for
physically challenged people. Did you know that your jail is the oldest in the state and that there have been
escapes? In fact, the police department has been evacuated several times in the last year due to failures of its
dilapidated air conditioning, plumbing and other systems.

We have not failed you, so please do your part to direct your local government.
Please vote by Tuesday, November 5th!

Sincere,
George Menta, President Steven H. Brackett
Santa Monica Firefighter’s Association Santa Monica Police Officers’ Association

Paid for by Santa Monica Police Officers’ Association. Treasurer: Steve Brackett P.A.C. #862230
Paid for by Santa Monica Firefighter’s Association. Treasurer: John Stone P.A.C. #903126
