Wn President Clinton and the Democratic Party...
Ending Welfare As We Know It

The Clinton Administration is encouraging welfare reform by clearing away federal rules and regulations
so that individual states can develop innovative new ways to tum welfare into a hand-up instead of a
handout. The 61 federal waivers the Clinton Administration has granted to 38 states are making work
and responsibility a way of life for more than 10 million people, about 75% of all welfare recipients.
These waivers allow states to:

° Set time limits on welfare benefits.

. Require welfare recipients to work or stay in school.

° Provide child care. ~ ;

° Give employers incentives to hire welfare recipients.

President Clinton’s 1997 Balanced Budget Ends the Aid to Families
with Dependent Children (AFDC) Program. The Clinton plan would:
Require welfare recipients who are able to work to do so, or lose their assistance.
Institute a 5-year limit on welfare.
Provide health and child care to those in need, so they can get off welfare and go to work.
Provide for children even if their parents lose their assistance.

Welfare Reform That Reflects Our Values
If you bring a child into this world, you must take responsibility for that child. The government should
not and will not subsidize irresponsible or reckless behavior. President Clinton has proposed the
toughest child support measures ever, including:
¢ Revoking the drivers’ and professional licenses of parents who refuse to pay child support.
¢ Improving interstate laws to find such parents.
* Strengthening the tools to establish paternity so that both parents take full responsibility for
their children.
¢ Requiring teen mothers to stay in school and sign personal responsibility contracts if they are to
receive welfare benefits.
* Issuing an executive order requiring federal employees to pay their child support.

President Clinton’s Hard Work Is Paying Off

¢ The number of Americans on welfare has dropped 1.3 million since President Clinton took
office in 1993.

¢ Welfare caseloads have declined by 1.4 million since March 1994, a 10% drop.

* Since President Clinton imposed tough sanctions on welfare and food stamp recipients who
tefuse to work food stamp rolls have declined by 1 million people, saving taxpayers over
$800 million.

¢ Teen pregnancy rates are down.

* Child support collections have jumped 40% to a record $11 billion in 1995.

¢ The number of people who are required to work to get welfare benefits is also way up.

“Welfare should be pro-work, pro-family, pro-independence, and responsible.
Welfare should be a second chance, not a way of life.”
President Bill Clinton, May 18, 1996

Issue Paper No. 8 DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE June 1996

430 South Capitol Strcet, S.E. * Washington, D.C. 20003 * 202.863.8000 © http://www.democrats.org
