I want to change the culture of Washington by changing the rules of the game.
And to change the rules of the game, you have to do two things: You have to take away
the politicians’ power to manipulate the tax code, to trade tax loopholes for re-election
money. And you have to limit their terms.

Do those things and you change the dynamic completely. Do those things and
you’ll change Washington forever. Do those things and the people will get their
government back again.

And as President, the 17% flat tax will be only the beginning. I will continue to
cut taxes from the bottom up, expanding family exemptions dollar for dollar for every cut
in the budget. That will make it dramatic for all America to see that every dollar Congress
chooses to spend on a pet project is coming right out of America’s families pockets.

So I want not only a flat tax, but a flat tax that is a tax cut. And let me caution my
party that we must be aware of the ‘ER’ candidates: those who put the letters ‘er’ at the
end of every word, like “I want a tax that’s flatter, fairer, simpler.” The ‘ER’ candidates
will end up putting our country in the Emergency Room.

Another pillar of a family-friendly policy is sound money. That is low mortgage
rates.

The house your parents or grandparents bought in the 1950’s or ‘60s was probably
bought with a 4 1/2% mortgage. But in the mid 1960’s, the Washington politicians took
control of our money and started manipulating it for their own ends. They sat here in
Washington, pushed their levers and buttons, and turned the everyday economic reality
from “Ozzie and Harriet” to “Nightmare on Elm Street.”

The legacy of their power grab is the historically high interest rates that make
families today slaves to their mortgages. High taxes and high mortgage rates have put
families on a treadmill, and the treadmill is winning. This is why two family incomes
today don’t seem to do the job that one did in times past.

The answer: We must take money out of the hands of the politicians. We can
bring back 4 1/2% mortgages, lower interest rates, and give the economy a boost. As we
did throughout our nation’s history until the late 60’s, we just tie the value of the dollar to
a fixed measure, such as gold, so that a dollar today will be worth a dollar tomorrow.

Imagine what it would be like if you woke up tomorrow morning with a 17% flat
tax that exempted the first $36,000 of income and a fixed long term mortgage of 4 1/2%.
Imagine what that would do for family life.
