T2O_2¢ searcn anc piracemeN: Assistance S>

ones Rat eT ‘ prepare tor a new wade OF cusiness, Tas procosal
Joixzand wre tax-See autpiacement assistance cule. Under sbe current rule.
empioyets ‘eceive a tax sreak On suck assistance gniy if the assistance is to find a
similar (00 and casn payment :3 not offered as an alternative to the assistance. The
new rule wil ailow emplovers to provide assistance on a tax-free basis even if a) the
assistance nelps prepare the employes for a job in a new trade or business or helps the
employes start his or her own business, and/or b) a cash payment is offered as an
-aiternative to assistance.

6. Consolidate more than 80 federal job caining, vocational education, and adult
education programs into a single grant to the states. We now spend more than $5
billion a year, with no accountability, and studies show these programs are not
helping people. The current system is confusing, redundant, ineffective, and
expensive. The bortom line is that the current federal job training maze does not
teach the skills workers need for the modern workplace. States must have flexibility
to experiment with innovative approeches like vouchers that workers can use (0
purchase the training they need from private training firms, schools, and community
colleges.

N WwW: Ni

Regulatory Relief

Washington rules, Washington regulations, and Washington red tape are strangling the
American economy and lowering its economic growth rate. An estimated $1.3 cillion of
economic activity is lost each year due to government regulations. (Sores: Carer ‘or te Stuty of Amencaa
Busess), That means fewer new joos and less take-home pay for America’s families.

President Clinton's own Administration has estimated that the cost of complying with
federal regulations was at least $668 billion in 1995. a figure larger than the entire personal
income tax for the same vear. This is more than $6,000 per household. By the vear 2000, these
figures are expected to rise to almost $721 billion, or $7,000 per household. In other words. even
if no new federal regulations are imposed, the “regulatory tax” on each American family from

regulations already on the books will increase by $1,000 over the next four years. (Sowes: U.S. Smail
Busmens Adaunisuraion) :

President Clinton has opposed real regulatory reform. Just look ar the facts: He opposed
and threatened to veto the Comprehensive Regulatory Reform Act of 1995, which would have
required cost-benetit and risk assessment analysis of new federal reguiations. He vetoed
regulatory reform in late 199$ as part of legisiation tq increase the debt ceiling. His
“Reinventing Government” program mainly looked ag intemal agency rules, not those rules that
burden individuals and privace business.
