February 1986
Fritnd —

As I begin my 20th year in the Legislature, I
invite you personally to work with me in a state-
wide campaign to make California the healthiest
place possible for growing human beings.

California is normally that state—geographically
and psychologically—where we humans have
enough vision and courage to become pioneers,
exploring and expanding our future in diverse ways.

In recent years we have especially been pioneers
in exploring ourselves and our humanness, expand-
ing our sense of our natural goodness and of our
human capacities, rights and responsibilities.

Now it’s time we get together and expand our
sense of politics as well. Some people say politics
has been stagnating recently. I sense instead that our
politics have been fermenting. We are preparing
ourselves. We need no longer resign ourselves to life
and politics as they are. We owe it to ourselves and
the people we hold dear, to stand up, speak out, and
create a new human politics, befitting our expand-
ing sense of ourselves. ,

This politics appeals to idealism rather than cyni-
cism, faith rather than fear, trust rather than suspi-
cion, generosity rather than greed, inclusion rather
than exclusion—in a practical, common sense way.

This politics is as traditional as loving our neigh-
bors and as nontraditional—heeding the Biblical
“Love thy neighbor as thyself’—as growing to love
and esteem ourselves as well. (As a friend put it,
“God didn’t make no junk.”)

It promotes a legislative program that supports
the desire of most Californians to balance human
and ecomonic concerns and development, sustain a

sound environment, enjoy a safe world, build self-

sufficiency and community interdependence, and
encourage integrity and responsibility in us all.

Finally, it is a politics we can believe in, get
excited about, commit ourselves to and involve our-
selves in. Together. Let’s put some vitality and
movement and hope back into politics. We can do
it, we simply need each other. I urge you to fill out
and send me the enclosed card. Join me and my
other friends; let’s make California the healthiest
place possible.

I wish you well. IV

More than 8,000 people have died from
AIDS since 1981, including some 1,700
Californians. We must provide incentive
for developing an AJDS vaccine by funding
clinical trials and a guaranteed purchase,
and by curtailing product liability. *

Each year California spends hundreds of
millions of dollars for crucial social service
programs. Certainly it makes sense to
combine these efforts with innovative
attempts to address the root causes of
related social problems. With this goal in
mind, we will be promoting self-esteem via
a statewide commission to advise Califor-
nians how valuing and nurturing healthy
self-esteem will shed valuable light on the
root causes of our social problems. *

*Bill numbers have not yet been assigned.

(continued next page)

