PROTECT A WOMAN’S RIGHT TO CHOOSE: “The Democratic WOULD DENY A WOMAN’S RIGHT TO CHOOSE: “The unbom
Party stands behind the right of every woman to choose, consistent with child has a fundamental individual right to life which cannot be infringed.
Roe v. Wade, and regardless of ability to pay. President Clinton took We support a human life amendment to the Constitution and we endorse
executive action to make sure that the right to make such decisions is legislation to make clear that the Fourteenth Amendment's protections

| protected for all Americans. Over the last four years, we haye taken action apply to unbom children. Our purpose is to have legislative and judicial

to end the gag rule and ensure safety at family planning and women’s protection of that right against those who perform abortions. We oppose
health clinics. We believe it is a fundamental constitutional liberty that using public revermes for abortion and will not fund organizations which
individua) Americans -- not government — can best take responsibility for | advocate it”

making the most difficult and intensely personal decisions regarding

reproduction...”

SAFEGUARDING OUR HEALTH AND PROTECTING OUR ENVIRONMENT

PROTECTING OUR ENVIRONMENT: “We will be good stewards of | BACKS DOLE BILL WHICH WOULD’VE ROLLED BACK
our old-growth forests, oppose new offshore oil drilling and mineral SAFEGUARDS: They promise that Dole’s regulatory reform bill “will
exploration and production in our nation’s many environmentally critical | become law when Bob Dole is President.”

areas, and protect our oceans from oil spills and the dumping of toxic and | ° :
radioactive waste _. In the last four years, President Clinton and Vice
President Gore have taken strong action to make our air and water cleaner.
They reformed the Superfund program — in each of the last two years
nearly as many toxic dumps were cleaned as in the previous decade. They
dramatically strengthened Community Right-to-Know efforts, because
Americans should be informed about toxic chemicals being released into
the air and water so they can take steps to protect themselves and their
families. They took measures to cut toxic air pollution from chemical
plants by 90 percent, and after years of Republican neglect they cleaned up
hundreds of nuclear weapons sites and are committed to finishing the job.”

PROTECTING OUR PRECIOUS RESOURCES: “We are committed to | THREATENS OUR PRECIOUS RESOURCES: “We support
protecting the majestic legacy of our National Parks and enhancing environmentally responsible energy extraction from public and private
recreational opportunities. We are determined to continue working to lands ... We advocafe environmentally sound oil production in the largest
restore the Florida Everglades, to preserve our wildlife refuges, and to fight | known onshore or offshore petroleum reserve in the Nation - the small
any effort to open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil and gas coastal plain portion of the 19-million acre Arctic National Wildlife
drilling.” Refuge.” :

Paid for and authorized by the Demotratic National Committee 4.
