The RIGHT TO VOTE
ON TAXES ACT — PROP. 218

What is Proposition 218, the Right to
Vote on Taxes Act?

Prop. 218 is an amendment to the California
Constitution which will guarantee the right to vote
on local taxes, even if these taxes are disguised
under other names like “assessments” and “fees.”
It will appear on the November 5, 1996 ballot.

How did Prop. 218 get on the ballot — is this
just another special interest measure?

Prop. 218 was placed on the ballot after thousands
of taxpayers collected over a million signatures of
registered voters. It is backed by taxpayers who
believe the people have the right to be consulted
before government increases taxes. Prop. 218
received no special interest funding or support.

Who wrote Proposition 218?

Prop. 218 was written by the Howard Jarvis
Taxpayers Association in consultation with Paul
Gann’s Citizens Committee, the Alliance of
California Taxpayers and Involved Voters, and
taxpayer groups throughout the state.

How does Proposition 218 guarantee my
right to vote on local taxes?

Proposition 218, the Right to Vote on Taxes Act,
will amend the state constitution to guarantee
Californians the Right to vote on local taxes and
assessments.

Specifically, Proposition 218, the Right to Vote on
Taxes Act will:

¢ require all new local taxes — like utility user
taxes — be submitted to voters for approval.

* allow property owners to approve all new
assessments on property.

¢ require existing assessments, that do not directly
benefit property, to be submitted to property
owners for ratification.

¢ strictly limit the use of fees and charges imposed
on property owners.

¢ provide local voters the right to use the initiative
to make changes in local laws governing taxes,
fees, assessments and charges.

Aren’t assessments on property already
limited under Proposition 13?

No. According to the courts, Prop. 13 covers only
property taxes, not so-called “benefit assessments”
and “maintenance assessments” on property.
However, for the average homeowner who pays
the bill, there is no difference between taxes and
assessments — because failure to pay either will
result in a lien on the property. Proposition 218 will
establish uniform rules for new assessments
requiring that property owners be sent ballots and
it will take a majority of ballots cast to approve new
assessments.

How will renters benefit from the passage of
Proposition 218?

First, Prop. 218 guarantees all registered voters the
right to vote on general and specific purpose taxes.
This includes taxes on utilities that are paid by
renters and homeowners alike. Second, Prop. 218
for the first time gives renters, who through their
lease agreements are obligated to pay assessments,
the right to protest. Under Prop. 218 those who pay,
including renters, would be able to vote.

Will Proposition 218 cripple local
government by making new taxes
impossible?

Not at all. Prop. 218 simply gives those who are
taxed the right to decide. By giving people the
power to approve new taxes, Prop. 218 will force
government officials to work more cooperatively
with local residents for the good of the entire
community.

How can I help pass Proposition 218, the
Right to Vote on Taxes Act?
To join our citizen-based coalition to pass the Right

to Vote on Taxes Act, simply complete and return
the attached supporter card.

And on November 5th
Vote YES on 218
The Right to Vote on Taxes Act

Because the people, not the politicians, should
have the right to approve new taxes!

QO) Yes, I support Prop. 218, the Right to Vote
on Taxes Act! You can count on me to help pass
this important taxpayers protection initiative.

Address

City /State/zip

Telephone (home)

Q Please send me __ brochures to pass on
to my friends and neighbors.

Q) You may list my name as a supporter
of Prop. 218

Q) Id like to make a campaign donation
of

Checks should be made payable to: Yes on 218.

Contributions or gifts to Yes on 218, a project of
the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association, are
not tax-deductible.

Mail to:
YES on 218
HJTA
621 South Westmoreland Ave., #202
Los Angeles, CA 90005-3971

Thank you for your support!

