RIGHT TO VOTE ON TAXES ACT (PROPOSITI
[ANNOTATED AS OF SEPTEMBER 5, 1996]

SECTION 1. TITLE. This Act shall be known and may be cited as the Right to Vote
on Taxes Act.

[Annotation: The title reflects the unifying theme -- there are three main elements of
the initiative and each relates to voter and taxpayer control over local taxes]

SECTION 2. FINDINGS AND DECLARATIONS. The People of the State of California
hereby find and declare that Proposition 13 was intended to provide effective tax
relief and to require voter approval of tax increases. However, local governments
have subjected taxpayers to excessive tax, assessment, fee and charge increases that
not only frustrate the purposes of voter approval for tax increases, but also threaten
the economic security of all Californians and the California economy itself. This
measure protects taxpayers by limiting the methods by which local governments
exact revenue from taxpayers without their consent.

[Annotation: Findings specifically refer to Proposition 13. If local governments and
courts had not abused the letter and spirit of 13, this initiative would not be
necessary. Again, focus is on voter and taxpayer control]

SECTION 3. VOTER APPROVAL FOR LOCAL TAX LEVIES. Article XIIIC of the
California Constitution is hereby added:

[Annotation: This section constitutionalizes Proposition 62, Government Code Section
53720, et seq. Although Proposition 62 was upheld by the California Supreme Court
in Santa Clara County Local Transportation Authority v. Guardino (Howard Jarvis
Taxpayers Association, et al., Real Parties in Interest (1995) 11 cal.4th 220, that
initiative was a statutory initiative and its applicability to charter cities has been called
into question. If Proposition 218 passes, there will be no question that all the voter
approval requirements will apply to charter cities. As noted below, this section also
makes Proposition 62 stronger in its application.]

SEC. 1. Definitions.

As used in this Article:

(a) "General tax" means any tax imposed for general governmental
purposes.
(b) "Local government" means any county, city, city and county, including

a charter city or county, any special district, or any other local or
regional governmental entity.
