50-POINT ACTION PLAN

Responsibly reduce defense expenditures over time by creating a smaller, more
flexible force that, when coupled with greater economic and security cooperation, can most
effectively serve the nation’s security interests and provide the basis for a more stable
world.

Through the above initiatives, secure a steadily growing “peace dividend” to support
domestic programs. Encourage incentives to help defense industries diversify into
nondefense markets and reinvest private-sector funds and expertise.

REVITALIZING OUR INNER CITIES

Apply proven educational, health, economic, and crime-reduction programs
to improve the inner city environment.

Use federally guaranteed loans to stimulate capital investment for start-up
industries in urban “enterprise zones.” By targeting economically deprived urban
areas, we can stimulate economic growth where it is most needed, thereby creating more
jobs, a stronger sense of community, and the revitalization of our inner cities.

Help plan urban infrastructure and housing that improve quality of life and
restore a sense of community to the inner city. Promote the development of
nonpolluting automobiles and public transportation, human-scale housing that discourages
crime and supports neighborhoods in which families can grow and prosper, and the
development of more parks and green spaces.

DRUG ABUSE

Implement educational programs that directly unfold intelligence and
creativity, build self-confidence, eliminate stress, and raise life to be in
harmony with natural law, thereby eliminating the tendency towards drug
dependence and helping prevent school dropouts—the principal targets for
drugs and drug-related crimes.

Promote programs that have been shown to dramatically reduce drug
dependency and to eliminate stress and restore balance in an individual’s
physiology and psychology (see “Health” section).

Support procedures that will promote cooperation and coordination among
the various law enforcement agencies responsible for interdicting,
apprehending, and prosecuting individuals and organizations engaged in
illegal drug and narcotics activities.

GUN CONTROL
Eliminate the climate of fear and tension pervading America’s cities and
towns, which is largely responsible for the proliferation of guns and their
use in acts of violent crime, through effective crime-prevention programs
(see “Crime and Rehabilitation” section).
Uphold existing gun-control legislation as an appropriate balance between
public safety and the constitutional right to bear arms.

10

50-POINT ACTION PLAN

UPHOLDING THE RIGHTS OF WOMEN AND MINORITIES

Support any legislation deemed necessary to uphold the guaranteed
constitutional rights of women and of minorities.

Dissolve prejudice and bigotry in society through educational programs that
develop broad comprehension, increased intelligence, and improved moral
reasoning and by reducing social stress that leads to fear and divisiveness.

Increase participation in government by women and by minorities to bring
greater strength and balance to the administration.

IMMIGRATION

Support “balanced immigration” by allocating immigration quotas to each
nation, thereby preventing dominance of any one nationality or ethnic
subculture in America’s “melting pot” tradition. The concentration of uninational
subcultures in urban centers precludes acculturation, slows economic integration, and could
lead to the birth of a permanent underclass.

