Why Should Students Vote Against Proposition 213?

1) Reduced risk means increased profits. You are too big of a risk for the insurance
companies to cover -- so they won't. Or they charge you so much for insurance that you
can't afford coverage. Either way,_most of you will be uninsured at some point. You loose.
They win.

2) Read the text of this initiative, it only provides immunity for the insurance

companies. Policy holders, people who pay premiums, will still be on the hook! The
insurance backers of Proposition 213 have created an entire new class of uninsured

motorist--the only difference is that some of you had to pay premiums.

3) Who pays for the uninsured victim's injuries? Right now it is the insurance
companies, but if this initiative passes, it will be you, me, taxpayers. You loose again--
twice! First, if you are the driver rear-ended while you are uninsured, and you're injured
because of someone else driving negligently, you won't be fully covered. Second, (even if
you have insurance) you are going to pay increased taxes to support medical treatment of

these uninsured victims of reckless insured drivers--payments the insurance companies will

have dropped onto our finacially strapped counties.

4) No fault doesn't work. California knows that as a fact. Californians have voted

down no fault every time it has come up on the ballot. This back-door-no-fault- initiative
began as legislation--and the insurance companies failed there too! The insurance industry

won't stop trying to pass no fault, why? No fault raises our rates while it lowers their risk.
5) Don't be fooled by visions of millionaire felons counting their bounty in our prisons,
that red herring is ridiculous! If you were on a jury, would you give some scum a big
payoff for getting hurt while committing a crime? Heck no!

6) There are no savings in Proposition 213. Read the text, there is no requirement
that insurance rates will go down, this proposition simply promises that insurance industry
profits go up. We have a history on this point to judge the intent of the insurance industry
by, Proposition 103. They are still fighting the mandated rebates six years later. And you
think they will pass 213 savings on? No!

7) Fighting drunk driving and crime are noble ideals, but these ideals are being used to
shield an ulterior motive--insurance industry profits at our expense. There are better ways
of punishing criminals, ways which don't hurt us too. VOTE NO on PROPOSITION 213.
