/ sad acai a A g
Debra Bowen. Environmentalist.

Protecting our quality of life.

While serving on the Assembly Natural Resources and Hazardous Waste and Toxic Materials

committees, Debra used her expertise as an environmental law attorney to protect our quality of life:

¢ Bowen battled special interests in order to save the California Environmental Quality Act.

¢ Bowen is a member of COAST; volunteered for Heal the Bay Legal Committee;
named the 1996 Legislator of the Year by Californians Against Waste.

¢ Bowen led the fight against chemical companies who tried to weaken the Clean
Water Act and Birth Defects Prevention Act.

¢ Bowen took on the big oil companies to kill their efforts to reduce penalities for oil
spills and to regulate themselves.

¢ Bowen stopped L.A. County’s plans to commercialize our beaches.

¢ Bowen fought garbage and plastic industry efforts to gut California’s landmark
recycling laws.

¢ Bowen opposes off-shore oil drilling along our coast.

For a California that works.

Unlike many legislators, Debra knows what it’s like to run a business and meet a payroll. Her
commitment to jobs has given our local economy a boost. As the Legislature’s leading expert on
the emerging information age, Debra is helping lead California’s workforce into the 21st century.

e Bowen leads the fight to repeal the new “tourism tax” which would unfairly
burden local businesses.

e Bowen helped pass Workers’ Compensation reforms, saving employees over
$3 billion a year, eliminating waste and fraud.

¢ Bowen encouraged allowing our state pension funds to invest a tiny percentage of their
private assets as seed capital to spark private investment in innovative new ventures.

¢ Bowen authored laws which streamline business permit processes and regulations.

¢ Bowen helped lead the successful fight to save over 45,000 jobs linked to the LA
Air Force Base in El Segundo.

¢ Bowen supported defense conversion efforts and targeted tax credits for research
and development, start-up businesses, and continuing education.
