®@ Dole's plan would also allow private school operators to choose which students to admit and
which to reject. Private school operators would be free to deny admission to special-needs
students who might cost private-school operators more to educate.

® Worst of all, Dole's plan draws attention away from proven ideas for improving the quality of
education in our schools.

"If education was a war, we'd be losing."
Bob Dole's address to the Republican National Convention, August 15, 1996

During the Cold War, Bob Dole was a staunch supporter of increased defense spending. He
believed that more money meant a stronger national security. If Bob Dole really believes that
education is a war we are losing, he must shoulder some of the blame. In addition to voting
against education funding, Dole has also failed to endorse many education reforms that have been
proven to work.

Last year, AFT launched a nationwide campaign, Lessons for Life, to raise the standards of
conduct and academic achievement in public schools. We are advocating that schools adopt tough,
fair and consistently enforced discipline codes and set rigorous academic standards for students. In
every school district that has raised standards of conduct and achievement, student performance
has improved.

President Clinton has endorsed AFT's Lessons for Life campaign. Colin Powell has endorsed
it, and so has U.S. Senator Nancy Kassebaum, the Republican who chairs the Senate Education
Committee. The campaign has the support of hundreds of elected officials, parents, business and
civic leaders, and advocates for children. However, one name is missing: Bob Dole.

Some of Bob Dole's biggest supporters oppose AFT's campaign and have fought any realistic
attempts to establish meaningful academic standards. Ralph Reed and his extremist coalition are on
record as opposing Goals 2000 and other attempts to set higher standards at the state and local
levels. These groups support private-school vouchers.

Fortunately, voters have a clear choice!
Bob Dole’s record on education is crystal clear. But what about President Clinton’s record?

@ President Clinton has endorsed the AFT's Lessons for Life campaign.

@ President Clinton's budget would expand Head Start to serve an additional 50,000 children.

@ He successfully fought congressional attempts to cut funding for Title I by 17 percent.

®@ President Clinton’s newest budget expands Pell Grants, and the President’s direct-lending plan
has saved taxpayers $4.5 billion, while giving students flexible repayment plans.

On education, the differences between the two leading candidates could not be clearer.
President Clinton wants to improve public education. Bob Dole wants to abandon it.

The stakes for the November 5 election are very high. We not only have a right to educate voters
about where candidates stand on public education, we have a responsibility to do so. We must let
them know that Bob Dole paints himself as a friend of public education, but his voting record and
voucher scheme tells a different story. We need to make sure the truth is heard by all voters before
election day. Only by doing this can we make our schools better places in which to learn and to
work.

Sincerely,

(name of state federation president)
