Dear Santa Monica Friend:

excellence in the classroom, and on excellent programs, some of which are unique in California.

One reason this College has been able to achieve greatness is that the College has profited from
long-term leadership. Simply put, many of the College leaders — administrators, faculty chairs, and
trustees — have had the time and support to start, nurture, and improve College programs.

Emeritus College, our national model program to serve seniors, is one example.
It was founded in 1975, a time of optimism about the economy and :
education. Three years later, Prop 13 forced the College to contract,
but the Board believed in the mission of Emeritus College and
protected it through the financially difficult times.

In the 1980s, commercial pressures and changing insurance
requirements in Santa Monica made many of the off-site classrooms
no longer available. (The Emeritus Advisory Board had built the
program to be “in the community,” in community rooms and churches
throughout Santa Monica.) The Board voted to provide Emeritus with its
own home, in specially-built classrooms and offices on the Third Street Promenade.

In the 1990s, new financial pressures again forced the College to contract. In order to protect
Emeritus, the Board voted to commit valuable resources to begin a development fund-raising
effort for Emeritus, to not just maintain the program, but to allow it to grow.

Today, Emeritus College is stronger than ever, serving our
community with classes that are “...a re-engagement for those
experiencing a disengagement from former activities, responsibilities
and roles,” to-quote.one of the Emeritus Board advisors.

Tm proud | that I am a Board of Trustees.member who can say, “I made
"all of these decisions.” | started, nurtured, and voted to improve
Emeritus College through ups and downs, good times and bad times.

an

‘| Tcould write the same letter about the College’s award-winning NPR
radio station. KCRW, or about-the College’s number one transfer-counseling center, or about the
national model Math Centér program, or about the College’s unique complex of student services.

Leadership is building a program decision by decision, and — in the case of Santa Monica
College — taking great pride in the results.

Sincerely,

Ilona Jo Katz
Santa Monica College Trustee
