THE SCHOOL + COMMUNITY INVESTMENT INITIATIVE

YES ON PROPOSITION 217

SUPPORT SCHOOLS + COMMUNITIES, KEEP TOP BRACKETS
Endorsers*

Education

Schools are struggling to reduce class size and improve
the quality of education. Educators support Prop. 217
because it will direct millions of dollars to schools.

California Federation of Teachers

California School Employees Association
California School Nurses Association
California State Parent Teacher Association
California Teachers Association

Los Angeles Unified School District

San Francisco Board of Education

Individual endorsers include State Superintendent of

Public Instruction Delaine Eastin, and hundreds of local
educators and school officials.

Law Enforcement/Public Safety

Law enforcement and public safety officials have watched
local budget crises strain local services. They support
Prop. 217 to help ensure adequate resources for public
safety.

Association for Los Angeles Deputy Sheriffs
California Coalition of Law Enforcement Associations
California Organization of Police and Sheriffs

Chief Probation Officers Association

Contra Costa County Deputy Sheriffs Association
California Professional Firefighters

Police Officers Research Association of California
Professional Peace Officers Association

Sacramento Deputy Sheriffs Association

Violence Prevention Coalition

Local Government

Prop. 217 will prevent the state from increasing the annual
property tax shift—it now amounts to $3.6 billion—and
help offset the loss cities and counties suffered.

Alameda County Board of Supervisors

California Association of Regional Park and Open Space
Administrators

California County Librarians Association

O Media Office: 416/546-6656

California State Association of Counties
County Welfare Directors Association
City of Los Angeles

City of Sacramento

City of San Bernardino

City of Santa Rosa

City of West Hollywood

Contra Costa Board of Supervisors
Humboldt County Board of Supervisors
Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors
Riverside County Board of Supervisors

San Bernardino County Board of Supervisors
San Francisco Board of Supervisors

Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors
Solano County Board of Supervisors

Urban Counties Caucus

Individual endorsers include Los Angeles County
Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky, E! Dorado County Supervisor
John Upton, Alameda County Supervisor Wilma Chan and
hundreds of local elected officials statewide.

Other Supporting Organizations

Many organizations are concerned that without Prop. 217,
the wealthiest 1% of taxpayers will get a massive tax cut
while 99% of taxpayers are paying more than their fair
share.

American Association of University Women, California

American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees

California Federation of Labor, AFL-CIO

California Independent Public Employees Legislative
Council

California Legislative Council for Older Americans

Child Development Policy Institute

Coleman Advocates for Children and Youth

Congress of California Seniors

Health Access of California

League of Women Voters of California

Maternal and Child Health Advocacy Project

Neighbor to Neighbor, Los Angeles and
San Francisco Chapters

Service Employees International Union

Sierra Club

* A partial list

O 2500 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 508; Los Angeles, CA 90057; Phone: 213/386-4036; Fax: 213/386-5878

O 973 Market St., 7th Floor; San Francisco, CA 94103; Phone: 415/284-7529; Fax: 415/563-9914

http://www.pr00217.0rg

1D No. 960200
