HMO Casualty
of the Day

September 24, 1996

Delayed Specialist Visit, Delayed Medications, Unnecessary Pain and Suffering.
Patricia Pratt (about her husband, William), Vacaville, California

On January 26, 1995 my husband William Pratt died of cancer. In June of 1993 my husband was
diagnosed with acute pancreatitis and treated for a year and a half.

In the three week period before his death we experienced things that 1 did not believe could happen
in our country. When he was first told he had cancer he was told by his physician that he had made
arrangements for an oncologist to examine him that morning and work out a treatment plan. He
waited for 10 agonizing hours for this doctor to show up. Her office kept telling him she would be
there, but after she failed to show up his physician released him from the hospital. It turned out to
be eight days before they could get him into see a specialist, and we will never know if that delay
would have made any difference.

A written prescription was given for medication and no record was ever made in his medical
records and refills were authorized on two different occasions. There was a potential medication
error while he was in the hospital. There was a failure to provide adequate pain relief during his
hospital stay. In fact, the on call physician discontinued pain medication that had been ordered by
his primary physician.

Communication problems between the physician and the nurses occurred ona daily basis. There
were inadequate staff and poor housekeeping conditions. And there was a failure to provide com-
fort and compassion to the patient and the patient’s family.

devastating as many major illnesses, and far too costly. The med-
ain and suffering, and for a year and a half my husband was in
‘amily are still suffering. This is not an isolated incidence; it is

Substandard medical care is just as
ical profession is supposed to ease p
almost constant pain. All of us in his f
happening far too often.

Every day until the November S election—when Californians will vote on the new patient safeguards against managed care abuses
established by Proposition 216—the face and story of another casualty of managed care care-cutting will be faxed to media, opinion
leaders, and to nurse leaders throughout the state who will distribute and post the stories daily in lunch rooms, community mes?-
ings, and other public places,

For more information, contact Chuck Idelson 415-437-3325 or Jamie Court 310-392-0522

