salary of $75,600 plus more than $20,000 in tax-free per diem.

California taxpayers pay their representatives in the California Legislature an annual full-time |
|
a

California legislators are the highest paid in the nation.

But local taxpayers, while paying a full-time salary, are
getting a part-time legislator.

Debra Bowen has served in the State Assembly for four years... a period in which her salary
increased 44 percent. At the same time, Bowen acquired one of the highest NOT VOTING
records in the Assembly... missing a grand total of 1,107 votes!

That's right. There were 1,107 bills that were before the State Assembly for an AYE or NAY
vote... and Debra Bowen either refused to vote, or didn’t even bother to attend the session.

=

DAY AS AN EXAMPLE

Mi day, August 21, 1995 was not an easy day for members of the State Aeon”
They were debating and voting on 35 important new bills, including legislation to:

= allow the disclosure of past sexual assault arrests and convictions to be used
against a criminal in a current sexual assault trial or civil action

m increase consumer protection for those who purchase wheelchairs.

m increase the protection for the victims of stalking and require stalkers to register
as sex offenders

= make it easier for women to purchase pepper spray for self-defense

= allow local police to be better informed when dangerous criminals are paroled
into their area

= help small business owners to protect themselves from bad checks and stolen
credit cards

= give the local district attorney greater power to crack down on “deadbeat”
parents who fail to pay child support.

Debra Bowen did not participate in any debate, nor did she vote FOR or AGAINST
final Assembly passage on any of these important bills.

In fact, she was the ONLY member of the entire Assembly who was absent.

Where was our legislator that day?

When questioned by the Daily Breeze on Sept. 26, 1996 about her absence,
Debra Bowen admitted that she was...

“back-packing in the Sierras.”
She just decided to take the day off.

If she won’t do the job... elect someone who will...

