STRENGTHENING DEMOCRACY

unequal, and unwieldy procedures in the world.
For example, in 1992 the number of signatures
required to get a presidential candidate on the
ballot in all 50 states plus the District of Colum-
bia was 25,500 for Democrats, 49,250 for Re-
publicans, and 770,000 for a new party candi-
date. In addition, to run a national slate of fed-
eral candidates in 1994, a new party would have
had to gather about 3.5 million signatures—ten
times more than the number required for the
Democratic and Republican parties [2].

These barriers blatantly violate the 1990 inter-
national Helsinki accords that guarantee univer-
sal and equal suffrage to all adult citizens, in-
cluding equal access to the ballot. Ironically,
the United States is the world’s foremost propo-
nent of these accords [3].

The Solution

The Natural Law Party supports election reform
that returns American democracy to the high
ideals envisioned by our nation’s founders. We
hold that the roots of government should go deep
into principles of life, of natural law, which sus-
tains and unifies the enormous diversity of na-
ture and society. For government to reflect these
principles, it must fairly represent the views of
all its citizens and candidates. Therefore, the
Natural Law Party supports the following ini-
tiatives:

¢ Ensure ballot access fairness. Every politi-
cal party and candidate should have the same
requirements in every election for getting on
the ballot. Incumbents should no longer have
privileges over challengers with new ideas.

¢ Promote campaign fairness. It is the right
of the American people to hear the views of
every candidate on the ballot. All candidates
who meet ballot access requirements should
have the same access to their constituencies,
including equal media access through a se-
ries of publicly sponsored televised forums,
debates, and infomercials, as well as publicly

40

sponsored mailings of voter education mate-
rials. To qualify for these privileges, candi-
dates would be required to comply with vol-
untary spending limits. This structure would
favor voter education over privately funded
media advertising and would thereby help
eliminate special-interest influence on the
election process.

Encourage all Americans to vote. Election
day should be made a mandatory national
holiday, as in most other nations, so that ev-
eryone has time to vote. Voter registration
should be facilitated by creating uniform laws
that allow same-day registration or even au-
tomatic registration.

Shorten the campaign season. The cam-
paign season should be reduced to four
months—two months for parties to choose
their candidates and two months for the gen-
eral election.

Abolish the Electoral College. Under the
current system, a presidential candidate can
receive a majority of the votes and still lose
the election. The President should be elected
by the people through direct popular vote.

Allow national initiatives. The “public ini-
tiative” process, already enacted and in op-
eration in 23 states, should be expanded to
the national level. This process allows the
collective will of our citizens to initiate leg-
islative reform and thereby shape governmen-
tal policy more directly.

Reconsider proportional representation.

This political system, as opposed to the “win-
ner-take-all” process, has been effective in
countries around the world and more fairly
represents the true will of the people.

STRENGTHENING DEMOCRACY

CAMPAIGN FINANCE REFORM
The Problem

The election process is far too long and expen-
sive. Elected representatives spend too much of
their terms fundraising and campaigning for
re-election. The United States has the longest
campaign season—yet the lowest voter turn-
out—of any country in the world; no other
country's campaign season exceeds two months.
The exorbitant cost of campaigns favors the
wealthy candidates and those who receive large
contributions from political action committees
(PACs) and other special-interest groups. Re-
search has shown that 90% of all campaigns are
won by the candidate who spends the most. Con-
sequently, government has become a hostage to
special interests rather than responsive to the
people. ;

In 1994, the Republicans supported campaign
finance reform and won a landslide victory.
However, once they became the majority party,
the Republicans became the majority beneficia-
ries of PAC funds. Now they are the biggest re-
cipients of special-interest money in history [4],
and Newt Gingrich has proclaimed that no cam-
paign finance reform will take place during the
current Congress.

The savings and loan crisis is a prime example
of what happens when government is financed
and controlled by special-interest groups. The
savings and loan deregulation was brought about
by the influence of the powerful savings and loan
lobby, which furnished large campaign contri-
butions to the President and to Congress. The
effects of this S&L deregulation and the conse-
quent irresponsible handling of depositors’ funds
have cost taxpayers hundreds of billions of dol-
lars—thousands of dollars for every taxpayer.

Campaign finances have usurped the focus of
our elected leaders by forcing them to attend to
fundraising rather than doing their jobs and solv-
ing the nation’s problems. For example, it can

take $10 million or more to run an effective Sen-
ate campaign; consequently, incumbents must
raise $5,000 every day they are in office. Hence
the lure of PAC funding becomes too compel-
ling to resist.

Unlike the major-party candidates with PAC
funding, independent and third-party candidates
encounter formidable financial obstacles to me-
dia access in this electronic age. In addition,
the frequent exclusion of these candidates from
participation in televised debates, due to the
stranglehold of the two major parties on the
democratic process, prevents new ideas and new
solutions from entering the political process.

The Solution

The Natural Law Party will promote fairness in
campaign financing through public sponsorship
of election campaigns and will support legisla-
tion to correct injustices through the following
campaign finance reforms:

¢ Eliminate PACs. When candidates run for
Congress, they turn to lobbyists and PACs
for contributions. Consequently, when draft-
ing legislation, they often feel more account-
able to special interests than to the people
they were elected to serve. This system
amounts to legalized bribery. The elimina-
tion of PACs and special-interest control of
the political process would make our elected
representatives responsive to the people once
again.

¢ Eliminate “soft money.” This loophole cir-

41

cumvents the legal limits that individuals or
corporations can donate to campaigns—lim-
its which are flagrantly violated today. Since
current donation limits apply only to the elec-
tion of federal officials and to some state or-
ganizations, unlimited funds can be donated
to nonfederal party accounts, whose admin-
istrators can then apply the money as they
choose—including, indirectly, to federal
campaigns [5]. Special-interest groups often

