Dear Friends and Fellow Republicans,

On behalf of the California Republican Party and its
membership, we invite you to join us as we combine hard
work and determination to achieve success for the present
and future.

This is my second term serving as Chairman of the California
Republican Party. In the last ten years, we Republicans have
lost control of the White House and the United States
Senate. We are faced with four years of a 43 percent
president who continually breaks campaign promises, cowing
down to the legions of fringe interests and squashing the
middle class with his record tax increases — all in the mock
tally cry of patriotism.

On the state level, Willie Brown and his henchmen are
driving businesses and jobs out of the state with their
promotion and support of big government and increased
tegulation. Speaker Brown's policies are directly responsible
for the workers’ compensation crisis in which the state of
California now finds itself.

Considering the challenges ahead, 1 remain optimistic. The
Party found itself in this same situation after the losses of
1976 and we were able to come back strong. With the help of
Republican volunteers, we can rebuild our Party from the
grassroots up. There is no limit to what we can do as a Party
when we work together, united.

We can recapture the imagination and trust of California and
the country by concentrating our efforts on the issues that
historically made us the progressive political party. Today's
Republican Party stands for restraining government
spending, promoting pro-growth policies, advancing tax
reduction, maintaining a strong national defense, reforming
America’s schools, securing a safe, drug-free environment for
our children, encouraging legal reform and guaranteeing
individual liberty.

As a nation on the brink of a new millennium, let us work
together and re-dedicate ourselves to building a Party that
will meet the challenges we face and further a better society.

Opportunities For Involvement ...

GOLDEN CIRCLE ¢ Building upon the legacy of its founder, John
Wayne, the Golden Circle of California has secured its place within
the California Republican Party as one of its most prominent
financial support organizations. This major donor program has
enlisted the support of national Republican leaders such as
Congressman Newt Gingrich, former Education Secretary Lamar
Alexander, RNC Chairman Haley Barbour, RNC Co-Chairman
Jeanie Austin, Governor Carrol! Campbell, Governor Terry Branstad,
Senator Robert Bennett, Congressman Michael Huffington, and
former U.S. Attomey General William Barr. An annual membership
fee of $1,500 for individual members and $3,000 for corporate
membership entitles participants to private gatherings and briefings
by top Republican leaders and strategists, admission to exclusive
receptions and many other benefits.

NEW REPUBLICAN LEADERS ¢ The newest of our major donor
gtoups is directed toward young business and professional
Republicans. The membership fee of $500 allows members to attend
one Golden Circle of California event each year and access to special
Convention activities.

WOMEN’S ORGANIZATIONS » Proud that Republicans were
the first to send women to both Houses of Congress and to the United
States Supreme Court, the California Republican Party has relied
upon the consistent level of leadership and activism of the California
Federation of Republican Women. The largest women’s volunteer
organization on both the state and national level, CFRW is a crucial
partner in the Republican Party’s voter registration program,
campaign phone banks, and precinct organization.

ETHNIC ORGANIZATIONS ° The Party of Lincoln has been a
steadfast leader toward integrating a diverse coalition, united by
common ideals and principles. The Party has pursued an aggressive
voter outreach program to communicate the Republican message
throughout local communities and the state. Any interested volunteer
would feel welcome in the rich variety of ethnic organizations
available through the California Republican Party.

YOUTH AND YOUNG ADULT GROUPS ° The California
Republican Party benefits from two of the largest volunteer youth
delegations in the nation. The College Republicans and the Young
Republicans are both vital components of the Party’s grassroots
efforts. Republican leaders have long understood the importance of
fostering youth activism, vision, and leadership — because the
Republican Party believes that they are the leaders of today just as
they are the destined leaders of tomorrow.

INDEPENDENT REPUBLICAN CLUBS ¢ Encouraging broader
participation of Republican grassroots activists and volunteers, the

Republican Ethnic Groups
*¥

\_} Youth/Young Adult Groups

(Age

Zip

)

City

to assist the efforts of the

L_] Independent Republican Clubs
Evening Phone (

_] Republican Women

The Golden Circle
New Republican Leaders

Yes, I would like to work to elect Republicans to office and foster Republican ideals and principles.

Please contact me about opportunities to serve.

California Republican Party.
)

fai] Yes, I want to become involved! Please send me information concerning:

|_] Please accept my contribution of $

Sincerely, California Republican Party benefits from the cooperation of a
Tirso del Junco, M.D. number of other volunteer organizations. These organizations include ~
lignan the California Republican Assembly, the California Republican v
the Congres of California Republicans. 4 §
a
VY [omy
AFAR ARRRRAR 45
| Zo Goa

