NATURAL LAW PARTY
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Chairman: Kingsley Brooks
NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS
51 West Washington Avenue, Fairfield, lowa 52556
Hours Monday-Friday, 10 a.m.—4 p.m., Central Standard Time
Phone: 515-472-2040 * Fax: 515-472-2011 ¢ E-mail: info@natural-law.org

Free introductory packet: 800-332-0000
World Wide Web: www.natural-law.org

Paid for by the Natural Law Party of the United States of America

INTRODUCING THE
NATURAL LAW PARTY

America’s Fastest Growing New Party

The Natural Law Party is the fastest growing political party in America—on target to make
modern political history as the first third party ever to run 1,000 candidates on the ballot in
all 50 states. By November, millions of citizens across the country will have signed
petitions to put the Natural Law Party on the ballot in their states.

Programs that Work

The Natural Law Party stands for prevention-oriented government, conflict-free politics,
and proven solutions designed to bring national life into harmony with natural law:

Cutting taxes deeply and responsibly while simultaneously balancing the budget
through cost-effective solutions to America’s problems, rather than by eliminating
essential services

Natural health care programs to prevent disease, promote health, and cut health care
costs by 50%

Proven educational initiatives and curriculum innovations that develop the inner creative
genius of the student and boost educational outcomes

Effective, field-tested crime prevention and rehabilitation programs that significantly
reduce crime and recidivism

Sustainable agriculture practices to increase crop yields and boost profitability without
hazardous chemical fertilizers and pesticides

Renewable energy production and energy conservation to reduce pollution and create
national energy self-sufficiency

Reducing government waste and special-interest control of politics

Proven Track Record

The Natural Law Party was founded in April 1992 to “bring the light of science into
politics.” The Party quickly qualified for the ballot in 32 states, fielded 128 candidates,
and became the only party in history (after the Republicans and Democrats) to be
granted “national party” status by the Federal Election Commission and to have its
presidential candidate, Dr. John Hagelin, qualify for federal matching funds.

Following the election, Dr. Hagelin and his running mate, Dr. Mike Tompkins, spent
two years working on Capitol Hill to introduce language into health care legislation that
would support funding for proven prevention-oriented health care programs—language
that received strong support from the leadership of both Republicans and Democrats.

By the 1994 elections, the Natural Law Party’s message was gaining widespread
support. The Party’s candidates captured, on average, many times more votes than in
1992—up to 20% in some races.

In a national urban primary hosted by CityVote on November 7, 1995, Dr. Hagelin
defeated Republican front-runners Bob Dole, Pat Buchanan, and Ross Perot in Fayette,
Missouri, and only narrowly lost to Bob Dole in Burlington, Vermont.
