aimed at "sending messages," "venting frustration,” and paying lawyers to go back to the US
Supreme Court in the fantasy that the Court will reverse itself. They know it can't be enforced. Yet
they inserted specific language designed to invalidate our initiative, if theirs is found unconstitutional,
even if ours wins a majority of the vote. That's intentional. That's less than honest. When combined
with the repeal of the state's Ethics in Government law, it is "bait and switch" consumer fraud at its

worst.

Campaign Spending
Limits

Out-of-District
Campaign
Contributions

Campaign
Contribution Limits

Special Interest
Contributions

Ban on Honoraria,
Limits Travel and
Gifts to Public .
Officials

The "Bait"

Contains mandatory
spending limits

Requires that 75% of all
contributions come from
individuals within the
district.

Limits all statewide race
contributions to a $200
maximum and all other
races to $100.

Bans direct union and
corporate contributions.

Promises to enact the
"toughest" reforms in the
nation.

The "Switch"

U.S. Supreme Court banned
mandatory spending limits in
1976 and nothing suggests
they will revise their decision.

A federal district court in
Oregon struck down a ban on
out-of-district contributions as
violating basic First Amendment

rights.

Federal courts have struck down
similar limits in Washington DC
and Missouri as First
Amendment violations.

While banning direct union and
corporate contributions, it creates a
Citizens Contribution Committee
(CCC) which allows some special
interests to give 10 times more than
under CPR and 100 times more than
other contributors are allowed, and
places no overall cap on contributions.

Allows unlimited gifts and travel
for legislators and local officials;
and unlimited honoraria to local
government officials, members
of state boards and
commissions.

Like any good scam, CALPIRG's off-the-top-of-your-head visceral appeal is compelling. But history
leaves a bitter lesson. In 1988, voters approved two reform measures. However, the one that won
the most votes was thrown out by the courts. This time, CALPIRG intentionally inserted a "poison
pill" provision into their measure which is clearly intended to invalidate our California Political
Reform Initiative, even if a majority of voters approve it and the courts throw out CALPIRG's
initiative. Therefore, if the courts strike down the obviously unconstitutional provisions of the
CALPIRG measure, voters may again end up with no reform after approving two reform measures.
