/

Right to Vote on Taxes Act
Page 7

(a) An agency which proposes to levy an assessment shall identify
all parcels which will have a special benefit conferred upon them
and upon which an assessment will be imposed. The
proportionate special benefit derived by each identified parcel
shall be determined in relationship to the entirety of the capital
cost of a public improvement or the maintenance and operation
expenses of a public improvement or for the cost of the property
related service being provided. No assessment shall be imposed
on any parcel which exceeds the reasonable cost of the
proportional special benefit conferred on that parcel. Only special
benefits are assessable, and an agency must separate the general
benefits from the special benefits conferred on a parcel. Parcels
within a district that are owned or used by any agency, the State
of California or the United States shall not be exempt from
assessment unless the agency can demonstrate by clear and
convincing evidence that such publicly owned parcels in fact
receive no special benefit.

[Annotation: These new requirements for assessments are actually similar to those
imposed by traditional assessment law. The overall purpose of this section is to
permit assessments to be used, once again, as a legitimate financing mechanism and
not just a means to impose flat rate parcel taxes. These requirements are:
assessments must be proportional to the benefit; only special benefits are assessable;
and public properties must pay their fair share. Historically, public properties were
also assessed benefit assessments. (See, e.g., Municipal Improvement Act of 1911).
Only in recent years when assessments have been used to impose what are, in effect,
parcel taxes, have public properties received blanket exemptions from assessments.
Under Proposition 218, if public property is benefited the same as private property,
then it should also be assessed.]

(b) ~All assessments must be supported by a detailed engineer's report
prepared by a registered professional engineer certified by the
State of California.

[Annotation: This requirement is consistent with traditional assessment law. Only
since Proposition 13 have non-engineers been able to prepare ‘engineers’ reports. "]

(c) The amount of the proposed assessment for each identified parcel
shall be calculated and the record owner of each parcel shall be
given written notice by mail of the proposed assessment, the total
amount thereof chargeable to the entire district, the amount
chargeable to the owner's particular parcel, the duration of such
