EDUCATION

THE SOLUTION to all our national problems
lies in proper education. The Natural Law Party
advocates scientifically proven educational pro-
grams that can unfold the full creative potential
of every student and produce ideal citizens ca-
pable of fulfilling their highest aspirations while
contributing maximum to the progress of soci-
ety. By harnessing America’s greatest re-
source—the unlimited creativity of our 260 mil-
lion citizens—the Natural Law Party can bring
fulfillment to education and ensure America’s
competitiveness and continuing leadership in the
family of nations.

THE PROBLEM

Education in America is not working. Even
though the United States spends more money
per student than any other country, our students
still rank far behind most of their international
peers in math and science—and well behind U.S.
test scores of 20 years ago. Twenty-eight per-
cent of our high school students drop out—the
highest rate of any industrialized nation—and
those who graduate are often ill prepared to en-
ter the work force [1].

Drug and alcohol abuse continues to undermine
our nation’s students and rob them of their self-
esteem and self-sufficiency [2]. Moreover, ju-
venile violent crime has increased markedly dur-
ing the past decade, especially gang and school
violence using guns [3].

America’s problems are human problems—
crime, drug abuse, domestic violence, and de-
clining health. Only through the full develop-
ment of our human resource can we rise above
the reach of problems. Yet research has shown
that students graduating from our current edu-
cational system use at most 5—10% of their full
mental potential [4]. A new and effective ap-
proach to education is clearly needed.

THE SOLUTION

Education is for enlightenment—the full devel-
opment of mind, body, and behavior. The Natu-
ral Law Party promotes proven educational pro-
grams that directly increase intelligence and cre-
ativity and simultaneously improve moral rea-
soning, self-esteem, and mental and physical
health and well-being. These programs include
sound educational approaches to nutrition [5],
natural, preventive health measures [6], effec-
tive drug prevention programs [7], and innova-
tive curriculum development [8].

While focusing on dissemination of knowledge,
current approaches to education ignore the most
fundamental component of learning—the con-
sciousness or intelligence of the student, which
is the basis of gaining knowledge. Today’s edu-
cational approaches provide no knowledge of
consciousness and no scientifically proven tech-
nology to develop it. This fundamental failure
is the ultimate source of the problems afflicting
education today. Even current proposals to im-
prove education most often focus on informa-
tion technologies, such as computer access to
the Internet, that offer larger and larger volumes
of data. However, without an educational ap-
proach that can develop more than 5—10% of a
student’s full potential, no amount of informa-
tion will ever produce truly educated, ideal citi-
zens.

The consciousness-based approach to education
advocated by the Natural Law Party develops
full human potential while providing mastery of
the technical skills necessary to compete in
today’s society. This approach combines the
most advanced and successful curriculum inno-
vations with the most thoroughly researched
educational program to develop the full poten-
tial of consciousness—the Transcendental Medi-
tation program [9]. This integrated approach to

EDUCATION PLATFORM

education develops knowledgeable, highly cre-
ative citizens who can fulfill their own goals
while simultaneously promoting the interests of
society.

The Natural Law Party proposes to upgrade the
U.S. Department of Education to a Department
of Educational Excellence, which would char-
ter several federally funded model schools in
which educational innovations of all kinds could
be implemented and researched. Based on the
success of these programs, parents and educa-
tors across the country could choose the ones
they felt would be most appropriate and effec-
tive in their neighborhoods. Rather than dictate
educational curricula at the local level, the Fed-
eral Government could thereby play a crucial
research and leadership role in improving edu-
cational outcomes across the nation. .

The Natural Law Party also supports federally
funded vouchers to increase parental options for
school choice and to foster competition among
schools. These vouchers could be used to pay
for any school of the parents’ choice—public,
private, or parochial—provided that the school
maintains high academic performance on stan-
dardized national tests. The free-market com-
petition that this voucher system will engender
will help reverse declining educational outcomes

~ in America.

The Natural Law Party also supports the follow-
ing initiatives:

¢ Fully fund the Head Start program, to give
all eligible children an opportunity to excel
from an early age.

¢ Provide financial support for every student
who wants to go to college. The Natural Law
Party does not support the scaling back of
Pell grants and student loans for higher edu-
cation. Government loans should be repaid
after graduation—if necessary through man-
datory salary deductions or community ser-
vice.

¢ Establish higher national standards and the
practical means to achieve them. Other par-
ties have called for higher standards but have
offered no effective strategies to accomplish
this goal.

¢ Lengthen the school year and increase the
number of required subjects in high schools,
as recommended by the 1984 National Com-
mission on Excellence in Education.

¢ Establish ties with teachers’ organizations,
schools, and community interest groups to
develop policies and programs that upgrade
the status and skills of teachers.

¢ Add computer support to the National Lit-
eracy Act of 1991, to provide research and
help implement computer-aided instruction,
including Internet instruction, in literacy pro-
grams.

¢ Increase the nutritional value of school
lunches—a simple but essential change that
has been shown to improve educational out-
comes in economically disadvantaged neigh-
borhoods.

¢ Establish community centers of knowledge
where parents can receive the latest under-
standing of health and nutrition for their chil-
dren.

¢ Create national apprenticeship programs by
bringing together business, labor, and edu-
cational leaders to develop a system that of-
fers training in a valuable skill for students
who are not college bound.

Most of the educational programs promoted by
the Natural Law Party have been successfully
applied in diverse educational settings world-
wide and have therefore been the subject of ex-
tensive scientific research. The results of such
programs include the significantly improved
educational outcomes mentioned above—in-
creased intelligence, creativity, motivation, aca-
demic performance, moral reasoning, psycho-
logical maturity, and social responsibility—as
well as a higher quality of life among students
and faculty.
