GOLDEN STATE MOBILHOME OWNERS LEAGUE, INC.

11021 MAGNOLIA BOULEVARD, GARDEN GROVE, CALIFORNIA
P.O. BOX 876, GARDEN GROVE, CALIFORNIA 92642
(714) 826-4071 1-800-888-1727

URGENT ACTION ALERT!

“A Homeowners Association”

Dear Fellow Mobilehome Owner,

Unless you act now, the rent on your mobilehome could go up by a lot more
than you can.afford tv pay. The investment in your mobilehome is at risk!

I'm sending you this letter today to ask you to take immediate action
to help stop the Mobilehome Eviction Initiative.

Mobilehome park owners have succeeded in placing an initiative
on the March 1996 statewide ballot that would wipe out the
mobilehome rent control law in your city. j

With your help today as a new member of the Golden State Mobilhome
Owners League, we can defeat the Mobilehome Eviction Initiative.

Since 1962 the Golden State Mobilhome Owners League (known as GSMOL)
has led the fight for fair treatment and the rights of mobilehome owners by lobbying
the State Legislature and the more than 500 city councils and county boards of
supervisors in California.

GSMOL, run by an all-volunteer board of directors and made up of more than
55,000 members statewide, iev i Ww i f

Without the accomplishments of GSMOL, your park owner couid evict you for
any reason or no reason at any time; raise your rent at any time, without 90-day
notice; charge you for parking, for keeping pets, and for use of the streets and
facilities; deny your relatives the right to live with you, and charge your guest from
the very first day; and much, much more.

W. : i vi
a ; ~ a ae f
mobilehome rent protection. These vital local ordinances were passed to protect you
from huge rent increases. :

Without these rent control ordinances, many mobilehome owners would be
forced out of their homes.

_ But the Mobilehome Eviction Initiative wouldn't only wipe out these
ordinances: it would prevent any city or county from ever passing one again!

And, in a cynical attempt to mislead California voters, greedy mobilehome park
