SUMMARY OF THE FRAUD

BENEFITS CLAIMED
BY PROPONENTS

If the Initiative passes, in the long term
local agencies would experience savings of
millions to tens of millions of dollars
annually.

See: Title & Summary, last two sentences,
“at page A-1.

The Initiative will result in a more
effective use of tax dollars.

See: Section 2(a)(2) at page A-S.

See: "The California Mobilehome Fairness
Initiative: Background for Policy Makers,"
April 1995, pages 1 and 2.

The Initiative "phases out" current rent
control so that no existing residents, but
only new buyers, shall be affected.

See: "The California Mobilehome Fairness
Initiative: Background for Policy Makers,"
April, 1995, page 1.

The Initiative offers residents a rent
subsidy which 300,000 persons shall be
immediately eligible to receive.

See: "The California Mobilehome Fairness
Initiative: Background for Policy Makers,"
April 1995, page 1.

THE TRUTH

FALSE.

This statement currently appears in the
Title & Summary, but is not based upon any
objective analysis. In most jurisdictions,
the cost of mobilehome rent control is paid
for by registration fees which are shared by"
park owners and residents. These
ordinances are self-funded. Whether the
Ordinance stays or goes shall have no direct
financial impact upon the local jurisdiction.
It is estimated that the total actual cost for
the 100 mobilehome rent ordinances now
existing is one million or less, which means
an average cost of only $10,000 to each
jurisdiction.

FALSE.

Because local tax dollars have little, if
anything, to do with the existence of local
mobilehome rent controls, there will be no
benefit to the average taxpayer if the
Initiative passes.

FALSE.

It is true that no new _ buyers of
mobilehomes shall be entitled to rent
control protection, since the sale shall
qualify as a “decontrolling event." (See
798.13(f)) at pages A-7 and A-8. But all
existing residents shall also be affected by
the immediate requirement that ordinances
cannot limit annual rent increases to
anything less than 100% of the CPI. (See
798.46.2(b) at page A-14.) And, even if the
park owner reduces services or maintenance
levels in the park, no rent reductions will be
allowed even before a rent ordinance is
"phased out." (See 798.46.2 at pages A-14,
A-15).

FALSE. |

The subsidy is an illusion which will
benefit few, if any, residents. The truth
about the subsidy is:

° No more than 10% of the residents
in a given park can receive the

