THE CAMPAIGN TO DEFEAT 209

Tne Campaign to defeat 209 has mobilized against this attempt to go back to a time when women and
people of color were denied jobs and educational opportunities. The Campaign is a broad coalition of

* organizations and individuals, reflecting the diversity of California and the nation. Our Co-Sponsors
include the YWCA of the USA, the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, California Teachers
Association and the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights.

Our Co-Sponsors share a commitment to creating a society where people are not denied opportunities because of
their skin color or gender. We are working together to protect women’s rights and civil rights.

Campaign Message and Strategy

The Campaign will use the media and grass roots efforts to expose Proposition 209 for what Is: an initiative
which hurts, rather than protects, women’s rights and civil rights. California voters have continually
demonsztrated that they will tun against initiatives that are intentionally written to deceive them.

The Campaign’s message will also highlight the devastating consequences of Proposition 209 for all of
California. When California voters understand that Proposition 209 will actually prohibit programs designed to
expand equal opportunity and prevent race and gender discrimination, they will turn against it. When California
voters discover that Proposition 209 will allow state and focal government to discrimination against them, their
daughters, their wives or partners, their sisters and their mothers, they will overwhelmingly vote to defeat it.

Campaign Team

Our professional Campaign is lead by a gifted team of political strategists and dedicated staff. Robert Shrum of
Shrum, Devine and Donilon, Inc., is an award-winning media strategist who will be crafting the Campaign’s
media message. Diane Feldman, the Campaign pollster, is one of the most talented pollsters in the country.
Patricia Ewing, the Campaign Manager, is a veteran of over. |+ campaigns and is nationally recognized and
Nicheile Lyons, a national finance consultant who has worked on over |0 campaigns.

WHAT YOU CAN DO

The Campaign needs yoursupport. If you would like to volunteer or would like additional information
about the Campaign, please contact one of our offices:

LA Headquarters (213) 782-1144 Fax (213) 782-1159
San Francisco (415) 437-1454 Fax (415) 437-1463

Donations can be sent to The Campaign to Defeat 209, 8170 Beverly Blvd., Suite 205, Los Angeles, G2c=
90048. Committee ID #961460. Contributions to the Campaign are not tax deductible. Please include
your occupation and employer for campaign finance purposes.
