gave women the ERA and held that sex is a suspect class and as such the state needs
a compelling reason to discriminate on account of sex.

C. Since gender is a suspect class, there is virtually no reason a government can give to discriminate.
against women. If Proposition 209 passes, the "reasonably necessary" language means that a government
need only show that its use of gender is rationally related to a legitimate governmental end, which
means any reason will do.

Under the Proposition 209 standard a state or local government would only need to
show that a sex-based classification was reasonable.

Constitutional scholar Erwin Chemerinsky has noted that “Under the rational basis test usually
any reason will due and it doesn’t have to be a good one.”

PROPOSITION 209'S RHETORIC ON CLAUSE (©)

A Proponents of Proposition 209 state that Clause (c) does not alter the Constitution.

Proposition 209 is a constitutional amendment.

Proposition 209 changes the California Constitution and its equal protection guarantees. As a
matter of legal precedent, an amendment to the Constitution is favored over earlier and less
specific constitutional and statutory provisions.

In 1972, California Supreme Court decided Sail'er Inn, which guaranteed that a strict scrutiny
standard be applied to all sex based classifications. Proposition 209 is a new amendment to the
Constitution which would lessens that guarantee and as such would override the previous level
of protection given to women and girls under the California Constitution.

B. Proponents of Prop. 209 say that Clause (c) is necessary to protect privacy and girls sports.

Privacy rights are already guaranteed under Article [ of the California State Constitution.
Men and women are currently protected by the Constitution from being strip searched by a
member of the opposite sex or having unisex bathrooms and are protected through federal and
state law from having the opposite sex as prison guards."

Current California law allows both boys and girls to tryout for any sports team they choose.
Proposition: 209 undermines this choice by introducing the new constitutional language of “bona
fide qualification” which could prevent equal opportunity for girls to participate in the sports
programs they wish.

CLAUSE (C)’S EFFECTS ON CALIFORNIA WOMEN

Will hurt funding and recruitment efforts for girls sports teams.

=< Girls sports teams could face elimination.

Women could be denied jobs in certain fields for economic reasons.
Women could be denied jobs because they have small children or are of child-bearing age.

‘Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act and Fair Employment and Housing Act.
