G

To: AFT Locals, State Federations and Executive Council

MEMORANDUM

From: Elizabeth M. Smith, Political Director
Date: September 6, 1996

RE: Enclosed AFT informational materials on the 1996 elections

Earlier this year, a prime minister spoke to a crowd of upbeat supporters who were campaigning for

his re-election. “Polls are like perfume,” the prime minister warned, “‘nice to smell, but dangerous to
swallow.”’ His words turned out to be prophetic. Months later; this incumbent — Shimon Peres of Israel
— lost his bid for re-election by a narrow margin. Here in America, the polls look pretty good for President
Clinton and other candidates our union is supporting, but we must take nothing for granted.

We must commit ourselves to informing our members of the issues and where the candidates stand.
That’s precisely what the enclosed packet of materials is designed to help you do.

A table of contents is included to guide you through the materials, most of which are designed to target
special audiences or issues. Much of the material is in a camera-ready format (on slick sheets), making it
easy for local and state federations to photocopy fliers or have them printed in a multi-color format by a
union print shop. Most of the camera-ready materials include documented citations so you can use them
as a resource for your own newsletter articles or leaflets.

In a study by the non-partisan League of Women Voters, 79% of Americans who voted in recent elections
reported that they had: 1) received a phone call or personal contact from a union, civic group, or political
organization reminding them of the election, and 2) received literature that spoke directly to the issues that
concern them. That’s why your phone banks, letters to members and other forms of personal contact are so
important. It was with these points in mind that AFT developed these materials.

Much of our election material will also be available electronically. Subscribers to American Online can
visit our site by typing the keyword: AFT. Then, in the main screen list box, simply click onto “Campaign
*96.” Ifyou have Jnternet access, simply type the following web-page address: http://www.aft.org.
Because the AFT web page is accessible to any /nternet user around the globe, there are some items which
we have chosen not to make available on our web page. Such items will only be accessible to users of
America Online (which has exclusive AFT-member access). Please understand that incompatible software
or other impediments may prevent some users from downloading all of the materials in their original
format.

At ail levels, from the White House down to state and local elections, we must make it clear what is at
stake for our members and their families. If we do that, our candidates will prevail. If you have any
questions, please call us at 202/879-4436. Thank you for your efforts.

EMS/mj

