50-POINT ACTION PLAN

Improve energy efficiency and self-sufficiency by (J) supporting basic research
on energy efficiency, energy storage, and fuel cells, in addition to electric, hydrogen, and
highly energy-efficient vehicles, (2) providing financial incentives for homeowners and
industry to use available energy-efficiency measures, and (3) setting performance standards
for energy-consuming and pollutant-emitting products.

Lead the global effort to prevent the destruction of the earth’s forests, the
decimation of the diversity of species, and the potential damage from ozone
depletion and the greenhouse effect.

Clean up America’s polluted air, rivers, wetlands, and oceans by elim-
inating industrial pollution at its source and using waste products
productively.

Create new jobs and new industries in energy conservation and renewable
energy sources that will simultaneously benefit the environment and save
the nation hundreds of billions of dollars.

STRENGTHENING DEMOCRACY

Support long-overdue reforms to ensure (a) equal access to the ballot, the
media, and the public for all qualified candidates, (b) the elimination of
PAC and soft-money funding of campaigns, and (c) a shift toward public
sponsorship of campaigns in order to reduce the undue influence of special-
interest groups on election outcomes. Such reforms will fulfill every American’s
right to complete information about all candidates and their platforms while freeing elected
officials to focus on serving their country rather than seeking campaign contributions.

Encourage voter participation in the election process by shortening the
campaign season to two months, making election day a national holiday,
and abolishing the Electoral College. Restrict lobbying and _ limit
congressional privileges.

ABORTION

Offer prevention of abortion on a realistic basis through proven educational
programs to bring individual and national life into harmony with natural
law. The Natural Law Party believes that we can reduce abortions more effectively
through education than through legislation—education that develops intelligence, improves
moral reasoning, and promotes far-sighted thinking and actions that do not create
problems. Our nation’s history shows that it is difficult to legislate morality, and the
Natural Law Party believes that it is counterproductive for the Federal Government to
outlaw abortion.

Encourage a shift from public to private funding of abortion—specifically,
private charity by those who wish to make abortion accessible for women
who cannot afford it. Over time, the government should eliminate the use of taxpayer
dollars to fund abortion as a method of birth control. (The Natural Law Party would
support public funding of abortions in cases of rape, incest, or medical necessity.)

50-POINT ACTION PLAN

Satisfy both those who are pro-life and those who are pro-choice by (a)
decreasing the number of unwanted pregnancies more effectively than
legislation and (b) leaving moral responsibility in the hands of those whose
lives are affected most.

FAMILY VALUES

Implement programs that resolve the root cause of the breakdown of family
life today—epidemic stress levels throughout society, especially in urban
centers. With the rise of greater social harmony, all individuals, and especially parents,
will be able to make the most life-supporting decisions in their personal lives and the most
nourishing decisions for the lives of their children. :

Create jobs, stimulate growth, and ease the financial strain experienced by
so many American families through our low-tax, pro-growth economic
policy.

Allocate a portion of the enormous savings generated from effective
economic and social policies toward programs to support primary
caregivers for the first years of their children’s lives and towards support
for the senior, most experienced members of our society.

FOREIGN POLICY

Create an immediate shift in U.S. foreign policy away from military aid
towards a more life-supporting policy based on the exportation of U.S.
know-how—American expertise and technical assistance in business
administration, entrepreneurship, education, sustainable agriculture, energy
conservation, and emerging environmental ‘technologies—supplemented
where necessary with economic support. This new type of life-supporting
assistance will allow many developing countries to become financially self-sufficient and
thereby help eliminate global hunger and poverty.

Ensure that our foreign aid resources are applied effectively—not wasted
through inefficiency, mishandling, or inappropriate allocation—by making
foreign aid decisions in consultation with the government and citizens of
recipient countries. Through this cooperative focus, promote unity and respect within
the global diversity of cultures, religions, races, and economic and political systems.

DEFENSE

Support the creation of a “prevention wing” within the military—a group
whose primary purpose is to prevent the outbreak of war and to preserve
and strengthen national and international peace. Train as few as 1-2% of military
personnel, comprising one or several groups of 5,000-10,000, in the proven peace-
promoting technology of the TM-Sidhi program. As well as “inoculating” participating
troops against the debilitating effects of combat stress, this prevention wing would help
relieve stress in the nation as a whole, prevent incoherence within the government, and
protect the nation from negative influences both inside and outside the country—including
terrorism and war.
