8. AIDS SPENDING: Would you maintain, increase or decrease federal research grants to universities and
hospitals searching for a cure or more effective measures against AIDS?

AIDS is taking a tragic toll on our nation. This plague must be attacked at every level: Education,
prevention, and accelerated research. We need to find the cure as soon as possible

9. Minimum Wage: What increases, if any, do you favor in the federal minimum wage?

Under normal circumstances I would favor a minimum wage increase. Our one-sided trade agreements
make is counterproductive to raise the minimum wage because it forces more jobs to leave the United
States. The best way to raise wages is to create more jobs. As the demand for workers increases, wages will
rise. The minimum wage only became an important issue in Washington in an election year. Millions of
American workers are under paid or working in temporary or part-time jobs. The real way to increase the
minimum wage is through international and domestic policies that support America’s six million small
businesses and the 80 million people they employ. If our businesses are thriving, they will be able to pay
their employees higher wages. :

10. Medicaid: Which level of government should have primary responsibility for Medicaid?

We must understand that the ideal health care system for New York State will be quite different from the
ideal health care system in Montana. Our states must be used as laboratories where different health care
reform proposals can be tested and closely scrutinized. Once this is done we can see which reforms will
save the most money while giving Medicaid recipients the best health care. The federal government must
then allow states to choose the best, proven programs for its people.

11. Abortion: What changes, if any, do you support in abortion law?

In a free society with a strong moral, ethical base abortions would be unthinkable. A decision to have an
abortion should only be made between a woman and God. We must support counseling and education that
can prevent unwanted pregnancies.

12. Americorps: Is Americorps, the national service program, worth saving?

We need to evaluate its effectiveness to learn whether or not this program is really making a difference in
the lives of our children. We should encourage communities to take pride in our children and teach them
how to care for their fellow citizens. The federal government can not teach us to be good, only our parents,
schools and communities can.

13. Environment — Property rights: Do you support “takings” legislation that would require payment if
federal environmental regulations reduce property values?

Yes, in cases where the owner has purchased his or her land before the environmental concern was known.
We should not be rewarding speculators who purchase sensitive land in the hope that they can reap a profit
from the federal government.

14. Environment — Protected habitats: Would you support changing the Endangered Species Act to limit
the number of habitats eligible to be designated endangered?

This would have to be determined on a case-by-case basis.

15. What works: Both parties speak of the need for reforming social programs. Can you give one or two
examples of a federal social program that, in your view, works as is?

No. All of our social programs must be redesigned, engineered, tested, and carefully implemented if they
are going to continue serving us in the future.
