UCLA RNs say -

No Contract +

Disrespect for Nurses

= UC Puts $$ before
Quality Health Care

decision to impose working conditions and pay cuts that the RNs warn could adversely affect the quality
of patient care. Particularly worrisome is a provision that links pay increases to unspecified UC cost con-
tainment measures.

U CLA Registered Nurses are fasting and holding an informational picket today to protest the University’s

Individual evaluations, which include compliance with reductions in costs that could be achieved by reducing
patient services or limiting care, will for the first time be a standardized test for wage increases for all UC nurses.

Bonuses to withhold or delay needed medical treatment have become a scandal
throughout the health care industry. “Patients should never have to worry that their
care may be compromised by economic incentives to limit care,” said Barbara
Grasso, RN, of the CNA.

“If the University of California wants to retain its long established role as a premier YES
medical institution, it must never place nurses in a position where they have to pass 2 1 6)
acost-containment test to ensure economic security for themselves and their fami-

lies,” Grasso said. Real Patient Protection

CNA nurse negotiators met with the University administration for months seeking a
fair contract settlement for nurses at all five major UC hospitals and at student health
centers across the state. The University’s rejection of a CNA proposal to adopt lan-
guage separating cost cutting from nurses’ pay was a critical factor that led to the breakdown of the talks.

RNs are also protesting the growing erosion of patient care standards at UCLA as the University utilizes increas-
ing numbers of minimally trained personnel to provide nursing care services.

UCLA, in particular, does not need to reduce costs at the expense of patient safety and nursing care, says the
CNA. UCLA alone reported excess revenues of more than $23 million in 1995, according to data supplied by the
University to the state. Additionally private fund raising for
UCLA hit a record $191 million last year, a 73 percent Help Registered Nurses preserve their
increase over the previous year. standards of quality health care.

Please call and express your concern and sup-
port:

¥ Medical Director Dr. Michael Karpf:
310/825-5041

¥ Director of Nursing Heidi Crooks:
California Nurses Association * 310/820-7228 310/825-6413

