saying, "Cocaine two or three times weekly causes no serious problems and, in daily
use and fairly large amounts, it can produce minor psychological problems." He has
also been quoted as saying that marijuana is, "As safe as aspirin and it promotes
safe driving." It should be noted that he has also written a book called Marijuana,
The Forbidden Medicine and is chairman of the National Organization To Reform
Marijuana Laws.

Studies of young marijuana users done at UC Davis have shown a linkage to
increased oral malignancies. The offsprings of mothers who use marijuana heavily
have been linked to an increased incidence of leukemia, lower I.Q.‘8s, and behavioral
problems. In a recent study, more people were admitted to a drug treatment center
because of marijuana addiction than heroin addiction, and marijuana was associated
with a six-fold increase in schizophrenia. There have also been alterations of
gonadal function and long term memory impairment in adolescence. There have been
studies of patients taking chemotherapy, which can compromise the immune system,
showing a higher incidence of fungal and bacterial infections, in addition to
bronchitis, from the local irritative effects of marijuana use.

One could go on to talk about the hundreds of chemicals produced by smoked
marijuana. None of over ten thousand articles in the scientific journals have shown
the drug to be safe or effective. I am impressed that the favorable reports from
doctors, patients, and nurses all appear to be anecdotal -~ anecdotal evidence does
not qualify as "science" because a sick patient may believe a drug is helping, while
the effect may be only perceived -- a placebo-effect.

I am not convinced that any study done before the release of the 5-HT3
receptor antagonist (ondansetron and granisetron) would be of help.

I feel that this bill is chasing a 1980‘s idea since disproved by 1990‘s
scientific advances. Marijuana as a drug is a concept that is behind the times. I

am convinced that the whole measure is a smoke screen of rhetoric by those who want
