Yes. Problems need to be solved at the level of government closest to the problem. Federal agencies need to
respond quickly to state requests for waivers.

27. Amtrak: Would you increase, decrease, eliminate or leave unchanged the amount of federal money
supporting the national passenger railway?

Every government program must pass a cost-benefit analysis. Amtrak needs to demonstrate that it provides
enough benefits to the public to warrant its cost to the taxpayers.

28. Social Security: Should the United States maintain Social Security as a program that pays benefits
universally, regardless of the recipient's wealth?

No. Since Social Security is running out of money, the wealthy should forego their benefits so that the
millions of needy Americans who rely on Social Security for their retirement can survive.

29. Official English: Should English be designated as the official language, requiring most federal
communications to be in English only?

Priority should be given to teaching English because to be successful in the United States you must be able
to speak English. Our schools should teach other languages, beginning in the elementary grades, so we can
compete in the global economy.

30. Bosnia: What, if any, support would you be willing to provide to a proposed international force in
Bosnia after the withdrawal of U.S. troops in the present operation?

I would have to know the goals, objectives, plans, needs, and costs to accurately answer this question.
31. Jobs: What steps can Washington take to create well-paying jobs over the next four years?

Creating jobs carries the highest priority. We need millions of good-paying jobs to produce the tax base that
allows us to balance the budget and pay our debt. Washington has an adversarial relationship with business.
We must change it to a supportive relationship. Six million small businesses employ eighty million people.
The fastest way to stimulate growth in jobs is to create an environment where small businesses can grow
and prosper. Today, they are burdened with unnecessary government regulations and they do not have
access to credit and capital. We must change the tax laws to give investors incentives to invest in small
businesses, and change the banking regulations to allow banks to loan them money. In addition, we need to
have an environment that encourages businesses to create jobs in the U.S.A., not move jobs overseas.

32. Tobacco money: Should your party forgo contributions from the tobacco industry?

Yes. Reform Party candidates will not accept any kind of special interest money. Our party will be financed
by millions of hard-working Americans sending in small contributions.

33. Gun control: Has the ban in assault-type weapons worked?

It is too early to tell. We must severely punish criminals who use guns to inflict violence and anyone who
brings a gun to school. We must also make sure anyone with a criminal record cannot purchase any type of
gun.

34. Gay discrimination: Would you endorse federal legislation making it illegal to fire or avoid hiring
people because they are homosexual?

Every time we pass a law we give up a portion of our freedom. The American people must learn to all work
together and respect one another. No law will make us do this.

35. Legacy: What would you want historians to say about your record in the White House?

I want to leave a better nation for our children and grandchildren that is economically and morally strong. I
want to make sure our budget is balanced, our debt declining, and that the American people — not the special
interests — control our government.
