After watching this introduction, surely you will know that I have literally lived the
American Dream. I want to make sure that some other kid who is a nobody from nowhere
has that same opportunity. I’m here today because I am absolutely determined to keep the
dream alive, and we will pass on a better, stronger country to the next generation.

I would like to compliment Governor Lamm on his speech and thank him for his
participation. Thank you, Dick.

Have you listened to the messages from the other parties during the last weeks? Do their
promises for 1996 sound familiar? Who first brought these issues to the American
people? You did. Isn’t it terrific that in‘just four years they’ve repented, been reborn and
you are setting the agenda for ‘96. God bless you.

Now, there is a question for everybody in the good ole USA. Do you think they will keep
those promises? Remember Lech Welesa’s message to our Congress when he said,
“Words are plentiful, but deeds are precious.” We are here in Valley Forge tonight to
remind everybody that the people who created this country made incredible sacrifices.
That’s why we have the convention here. They fought barefooted in the snow in this part
of Pennsylvania.

Has anybody here ever heard the name Benjamin Fell? Somebody has. Wonderful. He
manufactured shoes and leather goods in the Valley Forge area during the Revolution. He
was shocked when he saw George Washington’s men barefoot and suffering in December
1777. He immediately started making shoes for the soldiers. He filled his house and attic
with soldiers. He was expelled from the Quaker church for participating in the war. The
British posted a reward for his capture, but he kept on making shoes for Washington’s
soldiers. Now that’s what we need! Here’s what is on his tombstone: To the memory of
Benjamin Fell, a patriot and a Christian, a friend of George Washington and a friend of
God. :

The only reason I know that story is that my wife Margot is a direct descendent of
Benjamin Fell and I have a grandson named Benjamin Fell Mulford.

Our ancestors came across the ocean in sailing ships you wouldn’t go across a lake in.
When they arrived there was nothing here. They built their tiny little cabins and they did
it with neighbors helping one another, not federal grants. They came here because they
wanted to be free. And they wanted to practice the religion of their choice, and after 200
years, too many of us take those privileges for granted. We must not forget they are
precious and they are fragile. Now, the immigrants who came later applied to become
American citizens, waited their turn and came through Ellis Island. Once they left Ellis
Island, they were on their own. There were no social programs to take care of them. They
scrambled, made do and they built the greatest country in the history of man.

It’s important for all of you to know that I am a very ordinary person of average
intelligence and all of my success has come from surrounding myself with people who
