THE FACTS: PROPOSITION 214, The HMO Patient Rights Initiative F

What Your Doctor Can’t

HealthNet tried to deny a 32-year old ‘mother with breast cancer a chance to Tell You Could Kill You

live by refusing to pay for a doctor-recommended bone marrow transplant
(Time magazine). Another HMO, FHP/Take Care, refused to refer a 12 year old
girl with a rare cancer to a specialist or to pay for her surgery (San Francisco
Examine?).-

¢ HMO “gag rules” prevent doctors from telling patients vital information
about their health care (New York Times, Time magazine). Unwritten “gag
policies” imposed by HMOs such as US Healthcare and CIGNA HealthCare
(Time magazine), give HMOs virtually unlimited power over doctors and
nurses —-including the right to fire them without cause.

e Kaiser and other HMOs have offered money to doctors and nurses to
deny or delay needed medical treatment (San Francisco Chronicle, Los Angeles
Times).

The Los Angeles Times exposed how HMOs jeopardize patients by cutting corners to
increase profits. HMOs spend as much as 25% to 30 % of insurance premiums on
exorbitant salaries and administrative costs, while skimping on patient care and
inadequately staffing hospitals and nursing homes.

‘The HMO Patient Rights Initiative (HPRI) is a simple, effective measure to stop HMOs from
denying needed medical care solely on the basis of cost.

‘Don't believe the HMO industry. HPRI does NOT increase taxes, create new government
agencies, or encourage litigation. HPRI is written in plain language and is easy to
understand. :

Here's a summary:

1) Purpose and Intent: Explains principles behind restoring treatment decisions to
patients and their doctors and nurses.

2) Prohibits Gag Rules: Prohibits health care businesses from establishing gag rules that
prevent doctors and nurses from telling patients what they need to know about their own
care.

3) Protects Patient Advocacy by Physicians: Bans health care businesses from retaliating
against health care professionals who advocate for their patients; prevents firing or
retaliation without just cause. (“Just cause” means a publicly defensible reason, such as
misconduct, malpractice, or economic necessity.)

4) Bans Incentives for Denying Needed Care: Prohibits financial incentives to doctors for
delaying or denying needed care. Doctors should not be forced to choose between
increasing their pay or giving patients appropriate care.

5) Requires Criteria for Denial of Care: Requires insurers to establish criteria — written by
doctors, not bureaucrats — for denying treatment. .

6) Requires Second Opinion: Health care businesses cannot deny patients treatments
recommended by a doctor without a second medical opinion and a written explanation.

7) Regulates HMO Doctors Like Other Doctors: HMO doctors and nurses are subject to
the same standards and disciplinary procedures as all other physicians, nurses, or other
licensed caregivers in California

8) Safe Hospitals and Nursing Homes: Requires hospitals and nursing homes to provide
minimum safe and adequate staffing. :

9) Disclose HMO Overhead: Requires health care insurers to disclose how. much money
they spend on health care services, and how much they spend on administrative costs
such'as advertising, executive salaries and profits.

10) Protects Patient Privacy: Ensures confidentiality of patients’ medical records;
prohibits health care businesses from selling patients’ medical records.

11) - 16) Technical provisions cover disclosure, interpretation, enforcement, amendment
and definitions.

| HAO Patient Rights Initiative

A ballot initiative

.endorsed by a coalition of

consumers, doctors,
nurses, healthcare workers,

labor & seniors.

CALIFORNIANS for
PATIENT

Ricuts

2372 Veteran Ave.

Suite 101

Los Angeles

CA 90064

Telephone: (310) 441-8511
Fax: (310) 441-8515

560 Twentieth Street
Oakland
CA 94612

Telephone: (510) 433-9360
Fax: (510) 869-2231

IN Na OBNAR4
