ack Scott
For State Assembly

Dear friend,

It is only two weeks until this most important election in the
44th Assembly District. The prestigious California Journal rated
this race as a "toss-up"; the most recent poll had me one
percentage point ahead. We have all worked long and hard to
reach this point, but I need your financial support once again if
I am to win.

As a friend and supporter you know who I am and what I stand for
-- improved public schools, streets free of guns, e
integrity in government, pro-choice, and a clean
These are the issues that we must address in our
the state of California; my opponent and I disagre
every issue.

My opponent in this election is running a well-financed, negative
campaign against me; and I must wage an aggressive effort in

order to combat his charges and set the record straight. This oe
campaign allows me that opportunity. I plan to give it my all.

Our effort began last December. And all our hard work is finally
paying off. We have raised over $375,000! Phone banks and
precinct walking are in full swing. Yard signs are being
distributed. We have a strong presence on cable TV. An
aggressive mail campaign has begun. My opponent has been
attacked over and over again in the local press, the Sacramento

Bee and the Los Angeles Times.

With just two weeks remaining, we need additional financing for
our final campaign mail. I hope that you can help. A
contribution of $250, $100, $50, $25, or whatever you can afford,
would be greatly appreciated. Please do not wait until October
31 to send your money. We need it now to assure sufficient time
to get our message to the voters by November 5.

Again, thank you for your continued support! Lacreta and I hope
to see you on election night to celebrate our victory.

si rely,

Scott

P.S. We will contact you as soon as we know the location of our
Victory Party on November 5th. See you there!

ee

Paid for and published by Jack Scott for Assembly « |.D.4# 952151 » Jonathan Fuhrman, Treasurer

297 N. Marengo Ave., 2nd Floor * Pasadena, CA 91101» Ph: 818-793-1996 * Fax: 818-844-4927
>
