GOLDEN STATE MOBILHOME OWNERS LEAGUE, INC.

11021 MAGNOLIA BOULEVARD. GARDEN GROVE, CALIFORNIA
P.O. BOX 876, GARDEN GROVE, CALIFORNIA 92642 O
(714) 826-4071 —_1 (800) 888-1727

“A Homeowners Association”

Dear GSMOL Member,

Right now, GSMOL is up against the biggest challenge we've ever faced: Proposition
199, the park owners’ phony "rental assistance” initiative. As the President of your’
‘League, I serve as an unpaid volunteer. I became active in GSMOL because, as a
mobilehome owner, I know that only a united organization can be effective in standing up
to park owners and others who would ruin our lifestyle by raising rents and placing
unreasonable restrictions on us. : :

In the face of Prop. 199 and other park owner attacks, GSMOL and our members must
stick together. I’m writing to remind you that your GSMOL membership renewal is due.
If the park owners’ initiative passes in March, it would phase out all mobilehome rent
controls, and prevent any new mobilehome rent control law from being passed. It would
place control over mobilehome space rents with the State Legislature. Let's not let the
Sacramento politicians take control over our pocketbooks!

GSMOL is mobilizing a major publicity campaign that will defeat Prop. 199. But it is
your membership dues that fund our effort to defeat this anti-mobilehome owner measure.

Let me give you one reason to renew your GSMOL membership. Her name is Doris
Boss. Doris Boss is an 83-year-old Los Angeles widow who faces the loss of her home of
20 years. Since L.A. County's rent control ordinance expired earlier this year, her rent has
risen to $845 per month, while her Social Security check totals only $783. Doris faces
eviction, repossession of her home, and total disruption of her life in their final years.
Thousands of other senior citizens will face the same if the park owners get their way!

I know that you'll agree that GSMOL's greatest strength is every member in every
community in California. With our voice against the park owners’ big money, we can
make sure that the mobilehome people have a say in our rents and living conditions.

Please renew your GSMOL membership today! It's vital for us to beat Prop. 199.

Remember to call the GSMOL Hotline at (800) 888-1727 in the evenings and on
weekends to get the latest information about GSMOL and our most important projects.
Our GSMOL Hotline will keep you up-to-date on matters that affect your lifestyle and
investment. f

If you are a computer buff, you can also visit GSMOL on the InterNet at
http:www//cwo.conv’~gsmol/. You can e-mail us at gsmol@cwo.com. I hope that these
electronic mailboxes and files will help you to get the information you need in a timely
manner. You can learn about the fight against the park owners’ initiative, the Mobilehome
Residency Law, and other mobilehome matters from your own computer.
