Issue

Democratic Party

Activities

Women’s Issues

LAUSD Break-up

Prop. 187

Occupation

Oschin

Active Democrat for 28 years and helped
elect Diane Feinstein to U.S. Senate. Began
political career working for John Kennedy.

A two-time breast cancer survivor, who has
spent the last decade counseling other
women. Also endorsed by Marjorie Braude,
Chair, Domestic Violence Task Force.

Leader in fight to break-up LAUSD.

Supported the portions of 187 which sent
a message that we need help for costs of
illegal aliens.

Principal Deputy to member of Los
Angeles City Council.

Hertzberg

Democrat for 23 years, active in non-partisan
races and serves as Finance Chair for
Congressman Xavier Becerra rated by
AIPAC in the “bottom tier” of Congressmen
in support of issues relating to Israel.

No known activities on behalf of women.

At a Democratic Club interview on Jan.
10, 1996, stated that he opposes break-up.

FLIP-FLOP Oct. 23, 1995: Tells
Stonewall Democratic Club that he
completely opposed 187 and took four
months off his law practice to fight it.
Today: Tells voters we should build a wall
around California to keep illegals out.

Tells one group he is an entrepreneur, tells
others he is a small businessman, tells
Daily News he is a “land use” lawyer, but
he is really a trial lawyer.

FRANCINE OSCHIN

DEMOCRAT FOR ASSEMBLY

“IT have known Francine Oschin both personally and professionally for many years. I
have always found her to be an efficient, caring, productive and honest person who is committed
to the residents of the Valley and to the ideals of the Democratic Party.

As a resident of the 40th State Assembly District, I can honestly say, she is the best
candidate to represent us.”

Judith Hirshberg, Past President

National Women’s Political Caucus, San Fernando Valley

“Over the years, I’ve known Francine to work very hard for the San Fernando Valley.
The City of Los Angeles could use a good friend like that working for us in Sacramento.”

John Ferraro, President
Los Angeles City Council
