CALIFORNIANS FOR

MEDICAL RIGHTS

What the Medical Marijuana Inititative Does, and Doesn’t Do

Proposition 215:

DOES require a doctor’s recommen-
dation for a patient to use marijuana
legally. While the initiative lists sev-
eral diseases for which marijuana has
been found to be useful, sufferers of
those diseases are not automatically
free to use marijuana. Proposition 215
requires a doctor’s formal recommen-
dation. If a patient is arrested, his ‘or
her doctor must provide testimony con-
firming the recommendation.

DOES create a clear distinction be-
tween legitimate, medical use of
marijuana and illegal drug abuse.
Today, California law does not make
such a distinction, meaning that pa-
tients can be arrested, even if their
doctor approves of their marijuana use
or recommends it for their treatment.
Proposition 215 leaves the marijuana
laws intact, but specifies who may
qualify for a medical-use exemption.

DOES define who may qualify as a
“primary caregiver” to a medical
marijuana-using patient. For those
cases of severely debilitated patients
who cannot obtain their own marijuana,
one provision permits a patient’s
“primary caregiver” to do so legally.
The “primary caregiver” is defined as
“the individual designated by the per-
son exempted under this act [the pa-
tient] who has consistently assumed re-
sponsibility for the housing, health or
safety of that person.” This provision
is clear guidance to the court system.

Proposition 215:

DOES NOT affect police officers’
ability to make arrests for mari-
juana. If Proposition 215 passes,
marijuana will still be illegal for every-
one. Therefore, arrests of persons
caught with marijuana will continue as
they do today. The difference will be
that patients who are arrested and have
their doctor’s recommendation to use
marijuana will have a legal defense
against marijuana charges.

DOES NOT conflict with federal law.
The federal government is a major ob-
stacle to patients who need legal access
to marijuana. However, Proposition
215 affects only the criminal code of
the state of California, providing a
special exemption to the marijuana laws
for patients with a doctor’s recommen-
dation. Federal prosecutions of patients
in California remain a hypothetical
possibility. Because Proposition 215
does not set up a supply system for
marijuana, the federal ban on medical
marijuana is not directly at issue.

DOES NOT permit patients to drive
under the influence, or in any way
endanger public: safety. The initiative
expressly states that laws prohibiting
intoxicated driving or any “conduct
that endangers others” remain in effect,
even for the patients who are otherwise
exempted from marijuana charges. This
is common sense -- driving under the
influence of any medication is danger-
ous and illegal.

YES ON PROP. 215

1250 Sixth Street, #202, Santa Monica, CA 90401

(310) 394-2952 Fax: (310) 451-7494

1121 L Street, #908, Sacramento, CA 95814 (916) 449-6190 Fax: (916) 449-6199

wake is
