Angela Farrell-Power
13500 Hesby Street
Sherman Oaks, California 91423

March 12, 1996

Dear Neighbor,

My name is Angela Farrell-Power, and I live nearby on Hesby Street here in Sherman Oaks.
I am very concerned about things going on in our neighborhood, and I think that you may
share some of my concerns. It seems to me that our community is becoming increasingly
burdened with problems such as the lack of adequate funding for our neighborhood schools,
the defacing of our community with graffiti, and the ever growing violence in our streets.

There is a man who I believe can help. His name is Bob Hertzberg, and he is running for the
State Assembly to represent us, our community, and our interests.

Let me tell you a little bit about him. I have had several conversations with him about
concerns of my own, and I find him to have a genuine interest in what I have to say. Now I
don’t know if you have ever had the feeling of being blown off by some politician once you
are out of earshot, but I have, and I don’t get that feeling from Bob. It seems as if he really
hears me and intends to find out how he can best help resolve the problems of our
community.

Bob is a man with integrity, conviction, and dedication. He is full of energy and has worked
tirelessly on many community projects, such as helping to identify and slash government red
tape and wasteful bureaucracy, adding more police on our streets, and helping to secure the

quality of our natural environment in the Santa Monica Mountains and the Sepulveda Basin.

I know it is hard to make heads or tails out of campaign mailers, but I hope you get to meet
Bob personally as he walks through our neighborhoods. I think you'll see that what I’ve said
about him is true. If you should miss him, feel free to stop by his campaign headquarters at
14925 Burbank Boulevard. You may also phone (818) 786-1996. I know that Bob wants to
hear from you and has an honest interest in your well-being.

I hope you’ll decide to vote for Bob Hertzberg on Election Day, and thank you for your time.
Sincerely,

Ayb§ ge oe haan

Angela Farrell-Power

P.S. Please remember that this year we have an early primary on Tuesday, March 26th.
