Los ANGELES Unirigp SCHOOL DisTRICT $id Thompeon

Sherman Oaks Center for Enriched Studies LARRY H, RUBIN
1860S Enwin Staxer, Resepa,Catarornta 91335 iret
TELEPHONE: (818) 342-5175

ANSWERS TO FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
What is this Bond Measure?
This Bond Measure is a School Repair and Construction Bond that, if passed,

will finance the repair and renovation of District schools. All money raised by the
Bond Measure will stay in our community to benefit our children.

Why is this Bond Measure needed?

Most of our District schools were built 30 to 70 years ago and are in need of
significant renovation. Many of our community's schools have become old, worn
out, overcrowded and, in some cases, unsafe.

: Heating and ventilation systems do not work, electrical systems are inadequate
(many classrooms only have one or two working outlets), roofs leak, and
bathrooms for students need to be upgraded.

An increase in the elementary student population has further strained our aging
facilities. Additional classroom space is needed to accommodate the number of
pupils currently attending our schools. In fact, recently approved state funding to
reduce class size requires that we provide even more classrooms.

District maintenance efforts have kept our schools in adequate working order.
However, we need to repair and renovate our schools if they are to serve our
community well for the next 25 years or more.

How much will the Bond Measure cost me?

Property owners will pay about $14.71 for each $100,000 of assessed valuation
(not market value) of their home in the first year. Over the life of the bond the
cost will average about $38.56 per year per $100,000 of assessed valuation.

If this Bond Measure does not pass, our school district will be forced to divert
funds that would otherwise go to classroom instruction to make only the most
critical safety repairs at each school. Classroom instruction will suffer, yet school
buildings will continue to deteriorate. Major repairs in the future will be far more
extensive and expensive.
