FOREIGN POLICY

THE END OF THE COLD WAR ERA has
brought the international community to the
threshold of a new era of global peace and har-
mony. The Natural Law Party believes that the
United States should lead the world forward in
creating new relationships governed by mutual
friendship and cooperation and freed from ag-
gression and armed conflict. America is faced
with a historic opportunity to help create a new
world order, in which peace is perpetual and ev-
ery nation upholds the flag of every other nation.

THE PROBLEM

In 1995, the U.S. spent approximately $21.2 bil-
lion on foreign aid—two thirds of which was
military aid. However, these expenditures have
not brought peace, economic stability, or greater
economic cooperation in the family of nations.
We continue to live in a dangerous world
troubled by widespread violence and regional
conflicts, as evidenced by the Gulf War, the eth-
nic violence in Bosnia, and continuing terror-
ism in the Middle East. Moreover, as a major
supplier of the world’s armaments, the U.S. has
directly contributed to such conflicts.

In addition, no real consensus exists concerning
the purpose, allotment, and amount of foreign
economic aid now that the historical goal of con-
taining communism is no longer an issue. There
is an urgent need to address America’s deterio-
rating relations with China, strained relationship
and multibillion dollar trade deficit with Japan,
and economic competition with Western Europe.
These relationships are especially troubling in
view of the continuing U.S. financial commit-
ment to defending Japan, as well as Germany
and Western Europe.

Americans naturally wish to help the emerging
democracies of the former Soviet Union and

46

Eastern Europe, yet protest substantial funds
given directly to Russia and other republics be-
cause of so many pressing priorities at home.
U.S. aid to developing countries has also been
criticized because of countless instances in which
funds either were wasted on projects that did not
help the people or failed to reach the people due
to misuse by the recipient governments.

THE SOLUTION

The Natural Law Party would create an imme-
diate shift in U.S. foreign policy away from mili-
tary aid towards a more life-supporting policy
based on the exportation of U.S. know-how.
American expertise and technical assistance in
such critical areas as business administration,
entrepreneurship, education, sustainable agricul-
ture, energy conservation, and emerging envi-
ronmental technologies, supplemented where
necessary with economic support, should replace
military aid as a principal instrument of U.S.
foreign policy.

This new type of life-nourishing assistance will
allow many developing countries to become fi-
nancially self-sufficient and eliminate hunger
and poverty. Such a policy would contribute to
a more affluent and fluorishing global trade and
a more prosperous family of nations.

With growing peace and cooperation in the inter-
national community, America’s security interests
have begun to shift from military concerns to glo-
bal economic and environmental issues. America
is called to leadership in developing a foreign policy
that most intelligently meets this challenge.

This foreign policy must respect and honor the
diversity of cultures, religions, races, and eco-
nomic and political systems of the world, while
promoting the value of unity—so that every na-

FOREIGN sPOLICY (PLATBORM

tion will respect and uphold the sovereignty and
cultural integrity of every other nation in an un-
precedented flow of economic cooperation and
goodwill.

Above all, we must ensure that our precious na-
tional resources are applied effectively and not
wasted through inefficiency, mishandling, or
inappropriate allocation. Foreign aid decisions
must be made in consultation with the people of
recipient countries, from both the government
and nongovernmental citizens’ groups.

Fundamental to the success of all these initia-
tives are the coherence-creating technologies
utilizing the group practice of the Transcenden-
tal Meditation and TM-Sidhi program that have
been proposed by the Natural Law Party. These
technologies have been uniquely effective in dis-
solving social stress and preventing the outbreak
of armed hostility and war [1]. By generating
coherence in collective consciousness, they cre-
ate an atmosphere in which diplomacy and other
peaceful methods of conflict resolution can suc-
ceed. Such groups, established either within the

47

U.S. or dispatched as a U.S. or U.N. peace-keep-
ing force to specific trouble spots, could help
prevent the senseless destruction and human
suffering resulting from regional conflicts.

In a peaceful and harmonious world family, we
can conceive of reducing our own military ex-
penditures and realizing a significant “peace
dividend,” directing some of our enormous de-
fense expenditures towards our own social pro-
grams, including investment and development
as an economic superpower.

NOTES

1. Extensive scientific research has been con-
ducted on the coherence-creating technologies
endorsed by the Natural Law Party, including
group practice of the TM-Sidhi program. Dur-

ing the Lebanon conflict, these technologies

were found to reduce war deaths by 75.9% (Jour-
nal of Conflict Resolution 32:776, 1988). Re-
search has also indicated that these programs
were instrumental in improving U.S.—Soviet re-
lations (Social Science Perspectives Journal
2:80, 1988).

