This is a sample letter for state federation presidents to send to their members who are state
anW/or local goverment employees:

Dear (name of state federation) member:

This year's election could be one of the most important in recent memory for those of us who
work in public services. The stakes for you and your family are very high. Whichever
candidates win, they will have a tremendous impact on determining how much money will be
available for raises and what changes will or won't occur in your benefits. But perhaps just as
important, the results of upcoming elections could have an impact on the job security of all public
sector workers.

There are a growing number of candidates, mostly on the far right, who would like to
dismantle government services. As a group, these candidates see only the cost of public services,
rarely the value. They believe that public employees have had it too good for too long.

Nowhere is this more apparent than in the U.S. Congress. In the last two years, we've seen
Newt Gingrich and his fellow Republicans try to eliminate several cabinet departments, gut
environmental protection legislation, hold up modest health care reforms, eliminate safety and
health protections, slash federal aid to education and even try to pay for a $270 billion tax cut for
the rich by cutting Medicare

Gingrich and his followers demonstrated their real feelings about government and public
services when they forced the federal government to close for more than a month this past winter.
It was all a part of their strategy that used government employees as cannon-fodder in their battle
to make President Clinton look bad.

But it is not just the substance of the extremists’ attack on public services that should concern
each and every American -- it is also their dangerous rhetoric. An increasingly number of
candidates are portraying public employees as scapegoats for all that is wrong with America.
At best, these candidates are trying to advance their careers by denigrating the dedication and hard
work of hundreds of thousands of public sector workers. At worst, their rhetoric has the potential
to encourage and even provoke those who would vent their frustrations with government in the
most violent ways. The Oklahoma City bombing was a tragic example of this.

{OPTIONAL PARAGRAPH: This professed disdain for government and public sector
workers isn't limited to candidates running for federal offices. Many politicians at the state and
local levels share these same views. Here in (add some stuff about what's happening on
the state and local levels... funding cuts, privatization... ).}

Fortunately this year, voters have a choice. For almost every elected office -- from the
President down to the local level -- there are candidates who are committed to improving public
services, not dismantling them. These candidates share the view that public services are important
and that government has a role to play in protecting its citizens and in helping to make their lives
better. This is not to say that these candidates, as a whole, are committed to the status quo. In fact,
most of them recognize that government services must change in order to adapt to new demands
and needs.

The best example of this is President Clinton. Today, the federal budget deficit is less than half
of what is was when he took office, yet President Clinton achieved this goal without sacrificing
important investments in health care, education and the environment. President Clinton blocked
Newt Gingrich's efforts to shift huge federal responsibilities to the states without the funding
needed to carry out these tasks. Gingrich called them “block grants.” President Clinton signed the
Family and Medical Leave Act, which allows working men and women to take unpaid leave for the
