PROPOSITION 204
SAFE, CLEAN, RELIABLE WATER SUPPLY ACT
FUNDING PROVISIONS

Proposition 204 provides a total funding amount of $995 million. This document briefly
summarizes the funding categories contained in the measure.

Delta Improvements Program
(Chapter 4, $193 million)

This Chapter provides funds for ongoing programs in the Bay-Delta watershed and for the expenses of
CALFED studies and planning activities.

1. Central Valley Project Improvement Program (CVPIA) - - $93 million

Provides funds for a portion of California’s share of costs for projects and programs authorized by the
Central Valley Project Improvement Act (P.L. 102-575). These actions include a temperature control
device at Shasta Dam, gravel restoration projects, construction of fish screens, removal of blockages to
fish passages, and other habitat improvements. (Benefits: directly all Central Valley Project dependent
areas and indirectly all bay-delta dependent areas)

2. Bay-Delta Agreement Program (Category III Projects) - - $60 million

Provides a portion of funds to implement fish screens and other measures called for in the Water Quality
Control plan for the Bay-Delta adopted by the State Water Resources Control Board. These projects are
known as “Category III” measures agreed to in the December, 1994 State-Federal Bay-Delta Accord.
G@enefits: all bay-delta dependent water users)

2» Delta Levee Rehabilitation Program - - $25 million

Provides funds for ongoing programs to protect the stability of delta levees, including local assistance
under the delta levee maintenance subventions program and special flood control projects, subsidence
studies, and levee monitoring programs. (Benefits: directly delta communities and indirectly bay-delta
dependent water users)

4. South Delta Barriers Program - - $10 million
Provides for funds, subject to Department of Fish and Game approval, to pay the state’s share of costs for
a fish barrier at the head of Old River in the delta and for salinity barriers to protect water quality for

beneficial uses in the delta. (Benefits: directly delta communities and indirectly bay-delta dependent
water users)

7129196
