Citizens for a Safer Los Angeles 201 N. Fi uueroa Suite 1470 Los Angeles :A.90012 © EB 25
ig Gi
iz

DETECTIVE CLIFF RUFF

14-year veteran
San Fernando Valley Gang Detail

Dear Valley resident,

For 14 years | fought crime in the Valley, ae the
Gang Detail. | know we've got to do more to make Valley
neighborhoods safe again.

i ition 1 — the ballot
t’s why I’m supporting Propos!
at add : new police division In the ea a Ce
ane the capacity of the overcrowded West Valley station..

Check the facts. Proposition 1 will put eure of
additional officers on patrol in Valley neighborhoods.

By reducing the area served by each Valley ia ae
Division, Proposition 4 will improve 9-1-1 emergency
time for all Valley neighborhoods.

That’s why rank and file police officers, firefighters and

aramedics, join Mayor Richard Riordan and Cia Willie
Williams in strongly urging you to support Propost :

Yb

Detective Cliff Ruff
Los Angeles Police Department

THE SAN FERNANDO VALLEY
UNITES FOR PROPOSITION 1.

Valley community and business leaders strongly support

Proposition 1 because Proposition 1 will mean a sater San
Fernando Valley.

® Proposition 1 will add an entire new police division in the
mid-Valley area.

Proposition 1 will double the capacity of the overcrowded
West Valley station

Proposition 1 will puts hundreds of more officers on patrol in
Valley neighborhoods

Proposition 1 will reduce 9-1-1 emergency response time

PROPOSITION 1 IS ENDORSED BY:

Mayor Richard Riordan

Police Chief Willie Williams

Former Mayor Tom Bradley
Councilman Richard Alarcon
Councilman Hal Bernson
Councilwoman Laura Chick
Councilman Joel Wachs

Bert Boeckmann, LA Police Commission

Los Angeles Police Protective League

United Firefighters of Los Angeles

United Chambers of Commerce, San Fernando Valley
San Fernando Valley Board of Realtors

Northridge Civic Association

Encino Homeowners Association

Van Nuys Homeowners Association
Woodland Hills Homeowners Association

Vote YES to) Proposition 1
Tuesday ¢ June 6
