QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ABOUT PROPOSITION 217

: What is Proposition 217?

A: A proposal on the November 5 ballot, to permanently raise the income tax on the state's
higher income taxpayers and small businesses by $700 million, retroactive to the beginning
of 1996.

: How high are taxes in California?

A: California has always had one of the most progressive income taxes -- meaning that
people who make more money, pay more in taxes. But if Proposition 217 passes,

California will effectively have sa ae cage aaenmn ma

: Why do you call this a retroactive tax increase? Doesn't it keep tax rates
unchanged?

A: No. In 1991, the Legislature and the governor agreed to temporarily raise the highest tax
rate for five years. That was specifically to cope with the state's budget problems during the
recession. That temporary increase expired December 31, 1995. That means Californians
began the year with the expectation of one tax rate, but may find themselves being taxed at
another rate. In fact, Proposition 217 means that Californians won't know until almost the
end of the year, what their tax bill will look like for the year. That's hardly fair.

: But if people can afford to pay that extra money, what's wrong with that?

A: This tax increase would come at a time when -- nationally and in other states -- the trend
is toward lower, not higher taxes. Both in fact and in appearance, Proposition 217 would
add to California's reputation as a difficult place to do business -- which is bad for all
Californians, coming just as the state's economy is finally beginning to recover.

: How does an increase in the personal income tax affect small businesses?

A: Eighty percent of all the business firms in California pay personal -- not corporate --
income taxes. Many of these are small, unincorporated businesses -- the same small
businesses that create 60% of the new jobs in our state. This tax increase would throw up
another obstacle for these businesses at a time when we should be nurturing these job-
creators.
