California Common Cause, the League of Women Voters of California, the American
Association of Retired Persons, United We Stand America, the American Lung
Association and others have qualified an initiative for the November 1996 ballot which
would put an end to the domination of large campaign contributors over the political
process.

PROPOSITION 208:

rictly limi ntributions to local an lected officials an
candidates. Currently there are no limits.

2. Limits campaign spending. Currently there are no limits.

. Bans fundraising in non-election rs. In 1995 legislative candidates raised
$13 million, 98% of that was raised by incumbents. In the first half of 1995, there
were over 130 legislative fundraising events.

4. Prohibits lobbyists from making or arranging contributions. During the

legislative session, lobbyists are invited to over a dozen legislative fundraisers a night.

Prohibi ndi from transferring their contributions to other
candidates. In 1994 Speaker Willie Brown transferred over $6 million, Assembly
Minority Leader Jim Brulte transferred over $2 million.

What You Can Do.

+ VOLUNTEER:

You can join our historic grassroots effort to help us win in November
"96. Join your local Proposition 208 committee. We need volunteers to come on
aboard our fundraising, speakers bureau, media outreach, and endorsements
committees. We need the participation of as many people as possible to succeed!

+ CONTRIBUTE:

It takes a lot of little money to get rid of big money in politics. In order to
get our message out to as many voters as possible, we need to raise a million dollars.
We already know what our politicians have to learn -- lots of small contributions can
add up to big dollars. Contributions, no matter how small, will make this reform effort a
reality. Join one of our fundraising committees and hold a house party for the
campaign.

To Get Involved: Call Californians for Political Reform at (916) 444-0834 or

(310) 475-8285 to find out how you can help or for more information. You can also
e-mail us at comcause@netcom.com .

TOGETHER, WE CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE ! cx
