7 Wine [in Vie ei

Compare for yourself. Then vote on November 5

for the candidate that will represent you as a working person.

FOR STATE SENATE

Adam Schiff Democrat Paula Boland Republican
Working to protect your wages Attacks workers’ wage and benefit
OQ Supports an increase in the minimum wage. standards

Q Opposes an increase in the minimum wage.

Q Supports the prevailing wage.

Q Supports the eight-hour day and overtime pay Q

Voted to repeal the prevailing wage.

Favors corporate interests over workers’
rights

For health & safety protection on the job

Q Supports workers’ right to a safe and healthy
workplace, and holding employers
accountable for workplace hazards. »

Q

Q

Protecting pensions, benefits a top priority Q
Opposes corporate raids on pension funds.

Q Supports access to quality medical care. Qo
For your rights and job security

OQ Opposes outsourcing of good paying union jobs
to low wage non-union employers.

Voted to give employers up to 6 months to
delay compensation for back injuries

Voted against retirement benefits for widows
and orphans of public employees killed in the
line of duty (AB 399).

Voted for tax cuts for the wealthy at workers’
expense (AB 1673).

Wrote a bill to outsource the state disability
insurance program (AB 801).

FOR STATE ASSEMBLY

Scott Wildman Democrat. John Geranios Republican
As a union representative, Scott Wildman Attacks workers’ wages, job security
defends working people every day. Q Opposes any increase in the minimum wage,

Q Supports raising the minimum wage.
Q Supports the prevailing wage.

work.
For health & safety protection on the job

O Supports your right to safe and healthy
workplace.

Q Supports holding employers accountable for
workplace hazards.

Promotes tax fairness for working people

Q Supports Proposition 217, which stops a $700
million tax break for the wealthiest 1% .

Protecting pensions, benefits a top priority
OQ Opposes corporate raids on pensions

O Supports overtime pay after eight hours’ Qa

as reported in the Glendale News-Press,
7/11/96.

Promotes outsourcing of good paying union
jobs to low wage non-union employers

Favors corporate interests over workers’

rights

Q Supports Pete Wilson’s 15% tax break, which

favors wealthy Californians at the expense of
working people.

SD 21 AD 43

