The Myths About Proposition 218

MYTH #1: Proposition 218 gives new powers to corporations and nonresidents.

TRUTH: No new powers are granted. Proposition 218 follows current assessment procedures
which already allow property owners, including corporations and nonresident property
owners, to participate. This includes proportional participation by property owners.

The current assessment process already allows property owners, including corporations and
nonresident property owners, to protest an assessment. With few exceptions, an election is not
required under current laws. Where an election is required, the California Supreme Court has
recognized that property owner elections for assessments are appropriate because landowners are
disproportionately affected by the election issue and because the financial burden falls directly and
precisely on landowners. While Proposition 218 requires property owner elections for assessments,

tax elections are voted upon by all registered voters.

Proportional participation by property owners, including corporations and nonresident property
owners, is not new. Property owner protests under the current assessment process are weighted,
usually according to the size of the parcel. Under Proposition 218, ballots are weighted according
to the amount of assessment. This is fair because financial burden and voting power are equalized.
As a practical matter, for assessments to finance local neighborhood improvements such as
sidewalks, voting power will not vary that much because homeowners will generally pay similar

assessment amounts.

In 1992, the Legislature enacted SB 773 which allows assessments for various indoor public
facilities, subject to a property owner election using weighted (proportional) voting. This is just one
example of existing statute containing the same voting elements that Proposition 218 opponents
object to. Yet, there was no public outcry over the voting requirements when this law was enacted.
The law was overwhelmingly approved by the Legislature, and without a single negative vote in the

State Senate.

Please see the attached chart for additional comparative information about the Proposition 218

assessment process.
