4

2 1] SECURITIES FRAUD. LAWSUITS.
_ INITIATIVE STATUTE.

ATTORNEY-CLIENT FEE ARRANGEMENTS.

SUMMARY OF KEY PROVISIONS
¢ Prohibits restrictions or limits on the fees lawyers can charge the public.

e Exempts elected officials from punishment for fraud, abuse and mismanagement of
public funds under 211.

e Exposes companies in which mutual funds and pension plans invest to frivolous
lawsuits which could threaten the stability and safety of these investments.
Fiscal Impact on Government Agencies, Jobs and the Economy

e Reduction in state revenue of 5.1 billion dollars in 1997-2007. Schools would bear
about half of this loss.

e Increased court costs of about 100 million dollars over the same period to process
thousands of new lawsuits this measure would create.

¢ Job loss of 159,000 due to relocation of California businesses to other states.

QQ YES. A YES VOTE WOULD:
¢ Change state law to make it easier for securities lawyers to sue California companies
in which pension plans and mutual funds invest. Investors in pension plans or mutual
funds would not be protected from any reduction in the value of their investment
caused by these new lawsuits.

¢ Prohibit the legislature from limiting or regulating the fees which these lawyers and
other lawyers can charge the public.

° Prevent politicians from being held liable, under the initiative, for mismanagement,
fraud or abuse involving public funds.

LJ NO. A NO VOTE WOULD:
¢ Leave strong state and federal laws on the books which protect investors from
securities fraud.

° Give the legislature the ability to regulate or restrict outrageous legal fees.
e Discourage frivolous lawsuits that clog courts and cost jobs.

Supporters Opponents
e San Diego Securities Lawyer William Lerach ¢ CA: Chamber of Commerce ® CA Taxpayers
¢ Various out-of-state securities lawyers Assn. * Atty. General Dan Lungren * Bob Dole

¢ Sen. Dianne Feinstein ¢ President Bill Clinton
¢ San Francisco Chronicle « Sacramento Bee

RECOMMENDED VOTE —————————> #a®@)

NOTICE TO VOTERS — (Required by Law) This is not an official ballot or an official sample ballot prepared by the county
elections official or the Secretary of State. This is an unofficial, marked ballot prepared by California Ballot Pamphlet, a project

of Citizens for Economic Progress, 4901 Birch Street, Newport Beach, CA 92660.

212

THE EFFECT OF YOUR VOTE

WuHo SUPPORTS AND OPPOSES THIS MEASURE

elections official or the Secretary of State. This is an unofficial, marked ballot prepared by California Ballot Pamphlet, a project

NOTICE TO VOTERS — (Required by Law) This is not an official ballot or an official sample ballot prepared by the county
of Citizens for Economic Progress, 4901 Birch Street, Newport Beach, CA 92660.

CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS AND

SPENDING LIMITS. REPEALS GIFT AND
HonoraRIA Limits. RESTRICTS LOBBYISTS.
INITIATIVE STATUTE.

SUMMARY OF KEY PROVISIONS

Repeals existing law limiting gifts and prohibiting honoraria received by public
officials.

Limits contributor’s contributions per candidate per election to $200 for statewide
offices, $100 for most other offices. Allows committees of small contributors 100
times this individual limit. Prohibits more than 25% of contributions from outside
district. Limits total contributions by committees and individuals. Bans direct
contributions from businesses and unions.

Imposes spending limits.
Limits time for fundraising.
Prohibits tax deduction for lobbying expenses. Prohibits lobbyists from making or
arranging contributions to those they influence.
Fiscal Impact on Government Agencies, Jobs and the Economy

Adoption of this measure would result in costs to state and local governments for
implementation and enforcement of new campaign finance limitations in the range of
up to $4 million annually.

The measure would result in unknown, but probably not significant, additional state
and local election costs. :

The measure would result in additional tax revenues to the state of about $6 million
annually due to the elimination of the tax deduction for lobbying expenses.

RECOMMENDED VOTE —————————> %
