DEFENSE

Finally, the Natural Law Party supports preven-
tion and rehabilitation programs that have been
shown to reduce stress, decrease alcohol and
drug abuse, alleviate post-traumatic stress syn-
drome, promote better health, and enhance
physical and mental performance [7].

NOTES
1. G-2, December 1994, Military 11(7):3.

2. For example, Congress has apportioned $13.4
billion for additional B-2 bombers that the Pen-
tagon doesn’t want; legislators have funded the
construction of four GS cruisers, although the
Navy only requested two; and the costly Seawolf
project is currently funded for $700 million, even
though the Navy doesn't want it at all.

3. Air Force Times, May 27, 1996, 10.

4. U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings, July 1995, 73.
5. See U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings, Janu-
ary 1996, p. 64. Environmental dangers cited

include inhalation of sand and other airborne par-
ticles, heavy metals, depleted uranium, chemi-

PLATFORM

cal and biological agents, pollution from hydro-
carbons, and genetic and cancer risks.

6. During the Lebanon war, the group practice
of the peace-creating program proposed by the
Natural Law Party was found to cause a 75.9%
decrease in war deaths (Journal of Conflict Reso-
lution 32:776, 1988; 34:756, 1990), a 68% de-
crease in war-related injuries, a 66% increase in
cooperation among antagonists, and a 48% re-
duction in the overall level of conflict (Disser-
tation Abstracts International 49:2381A, 1988).

7. Scientific research on the programs supported
by the Natural Law Party has shown improved
health and decreased health care costs (Psycho-
somatic Medicine 49:493, 1987), decreased drug
abuse (Alcoholism Treatment Quarterly 11(1/2,
3/4), 1994; International Journal of the Addic-
tions 12:729, 1977), decreased symptoms of
post-traumatic stress syndrome (Journal of
Counseling and Development 64:212, 1985),
faster reaction time (Personality and Individual
Differences 12:1105, 1991), and increased cre-
ativity (The Journal of Creative Behavior
13:169, 1979) and intelligence (Personality and
Individual Differences 12:105, 1991; Perceptual
and Motor Skills 62:731, 1986).

50

REVITALIZING OUR INNER CITIES

THE NATURAL LAW PARTY supports a
comprehensive, cost-effective plan to revitalize
our inner cities. Our plan includes proven pro-
grams for education; job, technical, and man-
agement training; crime prevention; drug reha-
bilitation; urban revitalization; social welfare;
economic development; and the development of
a stronger sense of community. To guarantee the
plan’s success, we would supplement all these
programs with scientifically validated technolo-
gies to reduce social stress and unfold the full
creative potential of people of all ages.

THE PROBLEM

America’s decaying urban centers are monu-
ments to decades of flawed public policies. Bil-
lions of dollars are wasted on programs that fail
to revitalize our cities because they do not go to
the root of the problem. They fail to unlock the
inner creative genius of the people, and they fail
to reduce the alarming rise of stress in society,
which is at the basis of the widespread epidemic
of crime, violence, alcohol and drug abuse, and
disease. For example, a recent report from the
U.S. Justice Department noted that 81% of weap-
ons arrests take place in cities, and that teenag-
ers accounted for 23% of these arrests. Univer-
sity of Cincinnati criminologist Frank Cullen
commented in USA Today that this trend relates
“to an absence of family and social structure to
support them. Together, that’s a lethal combi-
nation.”

Without addressing the root causes of stress at
the basis of urban decay and unrest, all other
efforts for economic recovery and urban renewal
are destined to fail.

THE SOLUTION

The Natural Law Party offers something new—
something that has been shown by scientific

Si

evidence to actually work. This approach in-
volves two steps: (1) reduction of built-up so-
cial stress, followed by (2) implementation of
practical programs to improve community life
and solve costly social problems.

To reduce stress, the Natural Law Party supports
the establishment of coherenice-creating groups
practicing the Transcendental Meditation and
TM-Sidhi program. Extensive research, pub-
lished in leading scientific journals, has found
that when a small proportion of a population
collectively practices this program there is a sig-
nificant reduction in negative tendencies, such
as crime, violence, sickness, and accidents, and
a strengthening of positive social and economic
trends in the population as a whole. Such pro-
grams will prevent the accumulation of stress
and frustration that has erupted as violence in
cities across the nation. In the more harmonious
atmosphere generated by these programs, a
deeper and more integrated sense of community
will emerge as the best security against inner-
city crime and decay.

After reducing social stress and creating a more
coherent social atmosphere, the Natural Law
Party would introduce practical solutions to
costly social problems and specific programs to
promote progress in every city:

¢ To improve public health and curb rising
health care costs, the Natural Law Party
would support prevention-oriented health
education and natural medicines that have
been shown scientifically to prevent disease,
promote health, and cut health care costs in
half (see our “Health” section).

* To boost the economy, the Natural Law Party
would propose significantly lower taxes,
made possible through its cost-effective so-
lutions to social problems; effective voca-

