February 10, 1996

Dear

On November 5, 1996 voters will decide what kind of place this
country will be at the start of the next century.

Will we be a society dedicated to the mainstream values of working
families, the middle class, and the many? Or, will we have a
government dedicated to an extremist right-wing agenda dictated by
wealthy and ideological special interests?

As a past supporter, you know where I stand in this debate. I want
to go to Congress to fight for the mainstream priorities of this
district such as investing in education, reducing gun violence,
protecting a woman’s right to choose, and preserving Medicare. But
to do that, I will need your continued financial support.

My probable extremist opponent -- Assemblyman James E. Rogan -- and
I could not be further apart on these important issues.

I believe that a quality education is the key to the American dream.
If we are going to build a strong economy and create good paying
jobs, we must invest in public education, college loans and job
training. That’s why I mentor young people at Pasadena High School’s
Graphic Arts Academy and why my campaign has won the support of
every member of the Pasadena School Board.

Assemblyman Rogan’s approach to education is far different. He is
a vocal supporter of school vouchers that would take billions of
dollars out of our public schools every year. Last month, he voted
to return paddling to the classroom. And, incredibly, he wants to
teach creationism in our public schools.

To fight gun-related crime and violence, I want to ban Saturday
Night Specials and maintain our ban on assault weapons.

Just last week, Rogan voted to give concealed weapon permits to
virtually anyone who asks -- giving the go ahead to 1.3 million
Californians to walk our streets each day with guns. He has also
called repeatedly for the repeal of the assault weapons ban. And he
has been handsomely rewarded: since 1994, he has collected tens of
thousands of dollars in campaign contributions from the NRA, the
Gun Owners of America, and other extremist gun groups.

As a member of the board of Planned Parenthood of Pasadena, I am
adamantly pro-choice and believe that family planning and health
services are basic rights that must be available to all.

260 South Los Robles Avenue * Suite 109 = Pasadena, CA 91101 = (818) 584-1996 = (818) 584-7896 fax = FEC # C00304048
e-mail: Kahn 1996@ix.netcom.com

Printed on
Paid for by the Doug Kahn for Congress Committee S- ® Recycled Paper
