Questions and Answers
About
Proposition BB

xP

Why is Proposition BB needed?
Most of our Los Angeles schools were built 30 to 70 years
ago and are in need of significant renovation. Our
community's schools have become old, worn out,
overcrowded and, in some cases, unsafe.

Heating and ventilation systems do not work, electrical
systems are inadequate (many classrooms only have one
or two workable outlets), roofs leak, and bathrooms for
children need to be upgraded.

An increase in elementary student population has further
strained our aging facilities. Additinal classroom space is
needed to accommodate the number of students currently
attending our schools. In fact, recently approved state
funding to reduce class size means that we will need even
more classrooms.

District maintenance efforts have kept our schools in
adequate working order. We need to repair and renovate
our schools if they are to serve our community well over
the next 25 years.

What is Proposition BB?
Proposition BB is a School Facilities Bond which, if
passed, will allow the Los Angeles Unified School
District to sell bonds to finance the repair and
renovation of Los Angeles schools. All money raised
by Proposition BB will stay in our community to
benefit Los Angeles children.
A special citizens’ oversight committee will be
established upon passage of
Proposition BB to ensure that Will Proposition BB improve
dt abies coieradnd ca classroom instruction?
pro} P
time and within budget Yes. The lack of proper equipment has taken a
huge toll on teachers and students. Improved
electrical service will allow students and teachers
to access modern technology, additional
classrooms will relieve — overcrowded
instructional spaces, and upgraded classrooms
and buildings will provide a safe, quality
learning environment.

Why is this money needed?
Over the years, the standards for
classroom instructional areas
have changed. For example, classrooms need more electrical
capacity and more electrical outlets. All schools need
earthquake safety measures, and plumbing, heating and sewer
systems need replacement. Finally, some things are just
wearing out. Floors and roofs were not made to last much
more than 30 years and need to be replaced. Improving the
lighting and heating efficiency at the schools will save the

eae What will happen if Proposition BB does not
pass?

If Proposition BB does not pass, our school district will be
required to divert funds that would otherwise go to
classroom instruction to make only the most critical safety
repairs at each school. School buildings will continue to
deteriorate. Major repairs in the future will only grow
more extensive and expensive.

How much will Propostion BB cost?
Property owners will pay $14.71 for each $100,000
of assessed valuation (not market value) of their
home in the first year. Over the life of the bond, 43
years, the cost will average about $38 per year per
$100,000 of assessed valuation.

How can I be sure the money will be well spent?
All money raised by Proposition BB will be held in a separate
facilities improvement account and be subject to an annual
audit. A citizens’ oversight and audit committee made up of
school facilities experts, financial advisors, community
leaders and a construction management team will work
together to ensure that all projects are completed on time and
within budget.

Other questions?
Call the Bond Information Office:

(213) 633-3740
(818) 997-2300 Ext. 3740
(310) 515-3000 Ext. 3740

No proceeds from Proposition BB can be used to compensate
district administrators and staff, or for purposes other than
those stated in the ballot measure.

