Yes On 218!
Right To Vote On Taxes Act

Proposition 218, The Right to Vote on Taxes Act, will amend the state constitution to

guarantee Californians the right to vote on local taxes and assessments.

Proposition 218, the Right to Vote on Taxes Act will:

* Strengthen existing law to require all new local taxes — like utility user taxes — be
submitted to voters for approval.

+ Allow property owners to approve all new assessments on property.

* Require existing assessments, that do not directly benefit property, to be submitted to
property owners for ratification.

* Strictly limit the use of fees and charges imposed on property owners.

Provide local voters the right to use the initiative to make changes in local laws

governing taxes, fees, assessments and charges.

Proposition 218 requires that general tax increases by all local government entities be
approved by not less than a majority of voters and reaffirms existing law requiring that
special purpose taxes be approved by a two-thirds vote.

Proposition 218 constitutionalizes Proposition 62 to make clear that residents of charter
cities are entitled to the same right to vote on taxes as are residents of general law cities and

unincorporated areas.

Proportion 218 establishes uniform procedures for the implementation of assessments on
property owners. It requires a ballot be mailed to all affected property owners and renters.
A majority of ballots actually cast is necessary for an assessment to be approved. As is the
case with existing assessment procedures, votes are cast proportionately according to the
actual benefit received by each property. Under current law, protests by 50% of all affected
property owners are required to stop an assessment, making a successful protest as likely as
winning the lottery. (Proposition 218 provides absolutely no new rights to corporate or
non-resident property owners that are not already guaranteed under existing law, although
for the first time renters, who through their lease agreements must pay assessments, will

now have the right to vote.)

YES ON 218, a project of the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association
621 S. Westmoreland Ave., Suite 202, Los Angeles, CA 90005
