PROP. 215 -- THE MEDICAL MARIJUANA INITIATIVE

This initiative to permit medical use of marijuana will appear on the ballot
November 5, 1996. The Attorney General of California has prepared the
following title and summary of the chief purpose and points of the initiative.

MEDICAL USE OF MARIJUANA. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Provides that patients or defined
caregivers, who possess or cultivate marijuana for medical treatment recommended by a physi-
cian, are exempt from general provisions of law which otherwise prohibit possession or cultiva-
tion of marijuana. Provides physicians shall not be punished or denied any right or privilege for
recommending marijuana to a patient for medical purposes. Declares that the measure not be
construed to supersede prohibitions of conduct endangering others nor to condone diversion of
marijuana for nonmedical purposes. Contains severability clause. Summary of estimate by Legis-
lative Analyst and Director of Finance of fiscal impact on state and local government: Because
this measure restricts the use of marijuana to only those persons for whom it is prescribed by a li-
censed physician, it would probably have no significant state or local fiscal impact.

Initiative text:

SECTION 1. Section 11362.5 is added to the Health
and Safety Code, to read:

11362.5. (a) This section shall be known and may be
cited as the Compassionate Use Act of 1996.

(b)(1) The people of the State of Califomia hereby find
and declare that the purposes of the Compassionate
Use Act of 1996 are as follows:

(A) To ensure that seriously ill Californians have the
right to obtain and use marijuana for medical purposes
Where that medical use is deemed appropriate and
has been recommended by a physician who has de-
termined that the person’s health would benefit from
the use of marijuana in the treatment of cancer, ano-
rexia, AIDS, chronic pain, spasticity, glaucoma, arthri-
tis, migraine, or any other illness for which marijuana
provides relief.

(B) To ensure that patients and their primary caregiv-
ers who obtain and use marijuana for medical pur-
poses upon the recommendation of a physician are
not subject to criminal prosecution or sanction.

(C) To encourage the federal and state governments
to implement a plan to provide for the safe and af-
fordable distribution of marijuana to all patients in
medical need of marijuana.

(2) Nothing in this act shall be construed to supersede

legislation prohibiting persons from engaging in con-
duct that endangers others, nor to condone the diver-
sion of marijuana for nonmedical purposes.

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no
physician in this state shall be punished, or denied any
right or privilege, for having recommended marijuana
to a patient for medical purposes.

(d) Section 11357, relating to the possession of mari-
juana, and Section 11358, relating to the cultivation of
marijuana, shall not apply to a patient, or to a patient's
primary caregiver, who possesses or cultivates mari-
juana for the personal medical purposes of the patient
upon the written or oral recommendation or approval
of a physician.

(e) For the. purposes of this section, “primary care-
giver’ means the individual designated by the person
exempted under this act who has consistently as-
sumed responsibility for the housing, health, or safety
of that person.

SECTION 2. If any provision of this measure or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is
held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect other provi-
sions or applications of the measure which can be
given effect without the invalid provision or applica-
tion, and to this end the provisions of this measure are
severable.

For more information, contact: Californians for Medical Rights
1250 Sixth St., Suite 202, Santa Monica, CA 90401
(310) 394-2952 fax: (310) 451-7494
