SECTION 1: TITLE

This measure shall be known and may
be cited as The Mobilehome Fairness and
Rental Assistance Act.

SECTION 2: FINDINGS AND
DECLARATIONS OF PURPOSE

(a) The People of the State of
California find and declare as follows:

(1) Some _ tenants of
mobilehome spaces in mobilehome parks in
California are poor and needy and are
urgently in need of rental assistance, without
delays, expense or red tape which state and
local government usually requires for the
administration of rental assistance programs;
and

(2) Over 80 local
governments are spending millions of dollars
annually administering and enforcing
mobilehome park rent controls for the
exclusive benefit of owners of mobilehomes
which comprise approximately only 5-percent
of California’s housing units with unrestricted
controls that are generally not means tested to
the poor, so that mobilehome owners in
mobilehomes with an average value of $40,000
to $50,000 obtain unfair price controls in rent
controlled areas at the expense of small
business-parkowners and all the citizens of
California; and

This is the Title which was re-written by the
Attorney General. As originally written by the
park owners, the Initiative was deceptively titled:
“The Mobilehome Faimess and _ Rental
Assistance Act.” Park owners still refer to it as
the “California Mobilehome Fairness Initiative.”
Again, note the structure which the park owners
have chosen. First, the rent assistance is
described, with the abolition of rent control
coming second. This Initiative is truly a “wolf in
sheep’s clothing.”

SECTION 2 states the facts upon which the
Initiative is based, along with the alleged
purposes for the adoption of what would be this
new law. One who wishes to come up with good
opposing arguments need only read this section!

This might be the one statement with which
mobilehome residents can agree in part. But the
real question is: Why are some mobilehome
residents so “urgently in need of rental
assistance?” Because of high rents of course!
The words used to describe rent control, such as
“delays,” “expense,” or “red tape,” have been
intentionally inserted to cater to the prevailing
public opinion that government is inefficient, and
that a private subsidy would be more effective.
Of course, rent control ordinances generally
function without delay and without “red tape,”
and are far more verifiable and efficient than the
voluntary subsidy proposed herein.

This statement emphasizes that millions of
dollars are being spent. False. Many ordinances
are self-funded for the most part from fees paid
by the park owners and residents. The largest
government expenditure is typically the cost to
win lawsuits which are brought to challenge
ordinances by the same park owners who wrote
this Initiative! The rest of the paragraph attempts
to state that many mobilehome owners are “well
to do” and don’t need rent control, and that the
“small businessman” park owner is suffering.
The thrust of this paragraph is that only the
poorest of residents need protection. But note the
admission that mobilehomes have significant
value. In fact, all mobilehome residents have a

PAGE A-3
