At their most fundamental, I truly believe that values and economics are not
separate issues. They are the same issue. A flat tax will restore honesty to the tax code
and give the people back their government. In such an atmosphere, so different from the
one we have now, traditional American values will flourish. Thrift, hard work, and
charity; individual responsibility and working towards shared goals; commitment to
family and community; faith in the future. These will describe not just the America we
want but the America we actually have.

Let us sew up our nation’s tattered social fabric. Let’s bind up the wounds caused
by three decades of mistaken social policy that has undermined America’s families. Let
us alleviate the anxieties of parents, and broaden the future for our children; bring
harmony and hope back to our lives, and return to the truths that have guided this country
so well for so long.

The election before us is not just any election. We stand at the threshold of a new
era of possibility. The next President’s term will end on the cusp of a new century.

A new century that demands new thinking , new perspectives, the imagination and
creativity of the American people.

I am an optimist.

But I am well aware of the pitfalls of a national campaign. You don’t give up the
security and freedom of private life to go into the meatgrinder of presidential politics in
the modern age unless you have a serious purpose.

I have one. | intend to offer the American People something they haven’t been
offered so far: a vision and a voice, a true vision and an honest voice.

For the other candidates talk about a flat tax -- but I mean it, and I’ll do it. They
talk about term limits, but I mean it, and I’ll do it. They don’t even dream about making
our currency sound and stable, and never mind talking about it. But I’ll talk about it, and
I mean it, and Ill do it. The other candidates talk about changing the culture of
Washington. But they are the culture of Washington.

I’m the one who will change Washington. Because I’m the one who means it.

We must rediscover and revitalize the American experiment, the essence of which
is giving individuals the opportunity to discover and develop their God-given talents. In
America, extraordinary deeds are done when seemingly ordinary people are allowed and
encouraged to take responsibility for themselves, for their families and for their
communities.
