TABLE OF CONTENTS

The Natural Law Party’s

50-Point Action Plan to Revitalize America:

1996 Platform Summary
5

Economy
12

18

Education
22

Crime and Rehabilitation
26
Agriculture
30

Energy and Environment
35

Strengthening Democracy
39

Abortion
43

Family Values
44

Foreign Policy
46

Defense
48

Revitalizing Our Inner Cities
51

Drug Abuse
ay

Gun Control
54

Capital Punishment
55

Upholding the Rights of Women and Minorities
56

Government Supported by Natural Law
oif/

THE NATURAL LAW PARTY’S
50-POINT ACTION PLAN
TO REVITALIZE AMERICA

1996 Platform Summary

GOVERNMENT

Prevention-oriented government. End crisis management through prevention-
oriented programs that will both solve existing problems and prevent future ones from
arising.

Conflict-free politics. The Natural Law Party supports “all-party government”—
bringing together the best ideas, programs, and leaders from all political parties and the
private sector to solve and prevent problems. The Natural Law Party advocates an end to
negative campaigning and partisan politics, and supports essential campaign finance reform
to eliminate special-interest control of government.

Proven solutions. Government should be based on what works—not what is politically
expedient or bought and paid for by special-interest groups. There are simple, humane,
cost-effective, scientifically proven solutions to all of America’s problems. The Natural
Law Party was founded to implement these solutions immediately in government.

Government in accord with natural law. Solve problems at their basis by bringing
individual life, and our national policies, into greater harmony with natural law through
proven educational programs; natural, preventive health care; renewable energy; sustainable
agriculture; and other forward-looking, prevention-oriented programs.

Reverse the current epidemic of individual and social stress by establishing
groups professionally engaged in creating coherence throughout society. Scientific research
verifies that such groups promote social harmony, reduce collective stress, and improve
efficiency in governmental administration.

Streamline the Federal Government by reducing government waste and
mismanagement, cutting pork-barrel spending, simplifying redundant bureaucracies, and
encouraging decentralization and privatization wherever possible.

ECONOMY

Implement a pro-growth economic policy, with a balanced budget by 1999
and a low flat tax of 10% by 2002. Only the Natural Law Party can cut taxes
deeply—and responsibly—while protecting the integrity of our important social programs
through the hundreds of billions of dollars saved annually by our cost-effective solutions to
crime, spiraling health care costs, and other costly social problems. Simultaneously, by
propelling the economy into a growth phase, our policy will create new jobs, reduce
unemployment, and strengthen job security.

Fully harness America’s most precious resource—the unlimited intelligence
and creativity of America’s 260 million citizens. Jn today’s information-based
