President Clinton and Congressional Democrats’
Families First Agenda

Putting More Cops On The Beat. Putting police on our streets is working. Democrats would extend this popular program for two
years, putting 125,000 police in our neighborhoods

Keeping Kids Off The Streets And Out Of Gangs. Democrats want to give judges more ee in dealing with youth offenders.
and offer incentives to get kids off the streets before they start causing trouble.

Cleaning Drugs Out Df Our Schoals Aud Testing Drug Offenders. Every school-child should understand the dangers of drugs.
and every dng offender should be tested for drug use.

Paying Women What They Deserve. By better enforcing the laws already on the books requiring equal pay for women and by
offering voluntary “fair pay" guidclincs for businesses, we can help make sure women get the pay they deserve.

Making Quality Child Care More Affordable. Familics shouldn't have to cut comers on child care, but with quality care priced at
thousands of dollars a year, many familics have no choice. That's why Democrats are proposing a bigger tax break to help parents
afford quality child care.

Banning Imports Made With Child Labor. American workers shouldn't have to compete with illegal child labor from abroad
Products manufactured in violation of a nation's child labor laws would be banned from entering the United States.

Kids-Only Health Plans. We'll require private insurance companics to offer special “kids-only” health plans, with sound benefits to
protect children. Thesc health plans will follow a set of common-sense rules: that children can't be denied or dropped from health
coverage if they: get sick. or if their familics move We'll also offer assistance for working familics to help make kids-only health
policies affordable.
Family And Medical Leave Is Working. A reccat bi-partisan survey shows family medical leave is helping millions of Americans.
After years of sandbagging by the GOP in Congress, President Clinton cagerly signed this bill into law in his first month in office.
President Clinton's New Plan Expands Family Leave by allowing workcrs to take up to 24 hours of unpaid Icave off a vear to
attend to child education, an older relative’s health needs. and routine family medical purposes.

President Clinton’s Proposal Offers Workers A Greater Choice In Finding Ways Of Earning A Living And Raising A Family. |
The President's proposal allows workcrs to swap up to 80 hours of overtime for paid time off (ficx-time), to usc their cared time off |
for any reason as long as they give their employers two weeks notice. and to usc their flex-time benefits for family leave purposes at
[any time. Workers sti!l maintain the right to choose overtime pay instead of flex-time.

| Health Care

