HMO Casualty of the Day

September 18, 1996

ecole |

"I think because we were so persistent is part of the reason why he’s here today. And if we
would have left him there, I don’t think he would be here today. With us there were times
where the poor nurse now, it wasn’t her fault, because she was so busy, she'd poke her head in
and say, ‘Did you take his vitals?’ So I was taking my own son's vital signs to give back to
them to chart, because she didn't have time. I think if people don’t get involved with the
Patient Protection Act, Proposition 216, that they're going to wind up in the same boat that
I’m in some day or one of their loved ones.”

Dan Lake (about his son Daniel)
Vacaville, California

Dan Lake, a 35 year-old emergency medical technician in Vacaville, came up against the
health care industry's cost-cutting practices when his wife went into premature labor,
and later when his infant son Daniel had to stay in the hospital for several months.

In 1991, Dan's wife Cindie was six months pregnant when she started having severe
chest pains and headaches. When she called her HMO doctor, he recommended that she
drive herself to the hospital. Dan, a trained Emergency Medical Technician, saw that his
wife was in too much pain to drive, and ordered an ambulance. The HMO doctor
refused to pay for the ambulance until Dan insistently demanded that the doctor look at
Cindie before making a final decision. When the HMO doctor saw Cindie's state, he
authorized HMO payment for the ambulance.

Cindie gave birth to their son Daniel at 24 weeks, and he needed care around the clock.
Dan commented that "If your kid is in the hospital, you might as well bring a suitcase.”
He found the hospital wards so understaffed that registered nurses had to take care of
four intensive care infants at once. Basic care could not be performed under this skeletal
staffing, and Dan was forced to take his own son's vitals. "We had things happen like
being told to pay to a babysitter to watch our son if we wanted to leave," said Lake. He
even monitored the baby next to his, whose parents both had to work, and could not
watch their child full-time. Dan says this situation is common, and he knows several
people “who have lost their jobs because the understaffing in hospitals forced them to go
take care of their children in the hospital." Dan describes Proposition 216, the Patient
Protection Act, as a “revolt against managed care. Because when you're lining someone's
pockets with money, they're not going to stand up and make the change.”

For More Information: Chuck Idelson 415-437-3325 or Jamie Court 310-392-0522
