They all support Asha Greenberg, Frank Schwengel,
and Shari Davis for Santa Monica City Council.

Wallace Peoples,
pharmacist and 10-year Mid-City renter

“Santa Monica renters have fought hard for their
rights: rent control is part of the city charter and
can't be taken away from us. Now we need
council members who can tackle our city's most
pressing problems—public safety, serving our
families, and improving our quality of life. Of all
the candidates, Asha, Frank, and Shari are by far
the most capable.”

Mae Laborde,

0 i °

62-vear Ocean Park resident

“There was a time when I didn't feel safe in my
neighborhood. Shari organized a Neighborhood
Watch that really reduced crime here. Frank did
the same thing in his neighborhood, and Asha
has been fighting crime during her four years on
the city council. Seniors feel especially
vulnerable. We can trust Asha, Frank, and Shari
to put our public safety first.”

Tebh Kusserow,
Santa Monica High School teacher
and former football coach

“Sports and recreation programs can do as much
as anything to keep a young person off drugs
and on the right track. Asha, Frank, and Shari
have pledged to invest more of the city's
resources in our youth—specifically to improve
and expand our parks so that more kids can
participate.”

Rena Mckinzie,

former Santa Monica fligh School PTSA
president and Samohi Alumni
Association co-founder

“Asha, Frank, and Shari have children at all
stages of involvement with Santa Monica public
schools—future students, current students,
graduates, and even a teacher. These are the
candidates who will see that the city cooperates
with the school district, to the benefit of the
whole community.”

Cynthia Holbrook,

former Sierra Club National
Headquarters Legislative Aide

“It's up to us to take care of Santa Monica's
beautiful bay and urban forest—by electing
leaders committed to protecting the
environment. Asha, Frank, and Shari will control

development and work to make Santa Monica a
cleaner, greener city.”

Rosalio “Rosey” Casillas,
34-year Sunset Park resident

“Which candidates understand the issues in my
neighborhood? Which ones know the people
and their needs? These are the questions I ask
before voting. This year the answers are simple:
Asha, Frank, and Shari will listen to all segments
of this community and represent our best
interests at City Hall.”

Jean Sedillos,
president of Concerned
Homeowners of Santa Monica

“I trust Asha, Frank, and Shari to protect Santa
Monica's residential neighborhoods from
increased density, traffic, pollution, and noise. I
urge all Santa Monicans who value their quality
of life to join me in voting for Asha, Frank and
Shari on November 5th.”

Thomas Tolman,
retired Santa Monica Fire Chief

“At election time, all the candidates talk about
their commitment to public safety. Asha, Frank,
and Shari have already demonstrated their
commitment by working for public safety—Asha
on the city council, Frank and Shari in our parks
and neighborhoods. They are the ones who will
support our police and firefighters to make Santa
Monica safer.”

Juan Mirabal,
Santa Monica Band Parents’ Association
Vice-president and former scoutmaster

“It's time for our city government to make
serving our youth a top priority. Each of these
candidates has firsthand experience: Asha works
to keep kids out of gangs. Frank has coached
youth athletic teams for 20 years. Shari creates
computer centers for low-income children. For
our young people, these are the three to elect.”

Alan Goldsmith,
owner of Santa Monica’s Bikecology

“A few years ago aggressive panhandlers and
people camped out on the sidewalk were
driving my customers away. Thanks to Asha
Greenberg's pressure on the city council, our
downtown area is a lot less intimidating now.
With Asha, Frank, and Shari, we can create a
council majority that won't let the city slip back
into the old free-for-all days.”

Vote November 5th

