218

Voter Approval for Local Government Taxes.
Limitations on Fees, Assessments, and Charges.
Initiative Constitutional Amendment.

Argument in Favor of Proposition 218

VOTE YES ON PROPOSITION 218. IT WILL GIVE YOU
THE RIGHT TO VOTE ON TAX INCREASES!

Proposition 218 guarantees your right to vote on local tax
increases—even when they are called something else, like
“assessments” or “fees” and imposed on homeowners.

Proposition 218 guarantees your right to vote on taxes
imposed on your water, gas, electric, and telephone bills.

Proposition 218 does NOT prevent government from raising
and spending money for vital services like police, fire and
education. If politicians want to raise taxes they need only
convince local voters that new taxes are really needed.

Proposition 218 simply extends the long standing
constitutional protection against politicians imposing tax
increases without voter approval.

After voters passed Proposition 13, politicians created a
loophole in the law that allows them to raise taxes without
voter approval by calling taxes “assessments” and “fees.”

Once this loophole was created, one lawyer working with
politicians wrote, assessments “are now limited only by the
limits of human imagination.”

How imaginative can the politicians be with assessments?
Here are a few examples among thousands:

¢ A view tax in Southern California—the better the view of

the ocean you have the more you pay.

© In Los Angeles, a proposal for assessments for a $2-million

scoreboard and a $6-million equestrian center to be paid
for by property owners.

¢ In Northern California, taxpayers 27 miles away from a

park are assessed because their property supposedly
benefits from that park.

¢ In the Central Valley, homeowners are assessed to

refurbish a college football field.

TAXPAYERS HAVE NO RIGHT TO VOTE ON THESE
TAX INCREASES AND OTHERS LIKE THEM
UNLESS PROPOSITION 218 PASSES!

Proposition 218 will significantly tighten the kind of benefit
assessments that can be levied.

Here are examples of why fees and assessments and other
nonvoted taxes are so unfair:

¢ The poor pay the same assessments as the rich. An elderly

widow pays exactly the same on her modest home as a
tycoon with a mansion.
There are now over 5,000 local districts which can impose
fees and assessments without the consent of local voters.
Special districts have increased assessments by over
2400%. over 15 years. Likewise, cities have increased
utility taxes 415% and raised benefit assessments 976%, a
ten-fold increase.

Non-voted taxes on electricity, gas, water, and telephone
services hit renters and homeowners hard.

And, retired homeowners get hit doubly hard!

To confirm the impact of fees and assessments on you, look at
your property tax bill. You will see a growing list of assessments
imposed without voter approval. The list will grow even longer
unless Proposition 218 passes.

Proposition 218 will allow you and your neighbors—not
politicians—to decide how high your taxes will be. It will allow
those who Lay dl assessments to decide if what they are being
asked to pay for is worth the cost. :

FOR THE RIGHT TO VOTE ON TAXES, VOTE YES ON
PROPOSITION 218. ‘

JOEL FOX

President, Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association
JIM CONRAN

President, Consumers First

RICHARD GANN

President, Paul Gann’s Citizens Committee

California Ballot Pamplet, November 5, 1996
