16. Crime-Parole: Do you favor “truth in sentencing” for violent criminals so they serve full sentences
with no chance of parole?

Yes. When violent criminals are convicted and sentenced to prison, they should not be released early.

17. Gambling: Should Washington increase taxes on the gambling industry or impose restrictions on its
growth? ;

It is hypocritical of the government to rely on the addiction of gambling to finance public policies.
Gambling should not be used for funding the operation of our government.

18. Government travel: Do you believe government officials, both executive and legislative, should be
permitted to go on fact-finding trips paid for by private interests?

No. It should be illegal for members of Congress to go on fact-finding trips paid for by the special interests.
Businesses and special interest groups should not pay for our elected leaders to travel around the world.

19. Work incentives: Do you favor providing tax incentives for companies to hire and train homeless
people who want to work?

The tax code shouldn’t be filled with provisions for every different cause. Businesses should recruit and
train the homeless who are capable of work. This should be part of a large movement of businesses moving
into the inner cities and offering new opportunities to the urban poor.

20. Medical Savings Accounts: Do you support allowing people to set up medical savings accounts that
would be taxed only if used for purposes other than medical costs?

Medical savings accounts are an idea worth testing. The health care reform legislation that was recently
signed into law contains a provision for a limited number of companies to offer these accounts to their
employees. The next step is to see how the medical savings accounts work before we expand them. The
final decisions must be made based on the results of this pilot program.

21. Euthanasia; Should euthanasia or physician-assisted suicide be legal?

This is a very personal decision that an individual should make with their family, their doctor, and their
God.

22. Death Penalty: Should the death penalty be expanded to include more crimes?

Yes. Any drug dealer who kills a child with drugs should face the death penalty. Terrorists should face
quick and severe punishment. ‘

23. Welfare: Should all welfare recipients willing to work be guaranteed a job, training or other assistance
from government if they cannot find employment covering basic living costs?

Our government must help welfare recipients receive the tools they need to become productive taxpayers.

24. IRAs: For what purpose, if any, should people be able to use their Individual Retirement Accounts
without penalty?

IRAs are intended to be used for our retirement. We should stop making loopholes.
25. Term Limits: Do you support congressional term limits?

Yes. Our elected leaders must realize that serving the American people is a privilege, not a career.
Seventy-four percent of the American people support term limits. It is time we passed a constitutional
amendment limiting congressional terms.

26. Waivers: Are you prepared to offer states a firm deadline to ensure their requests for waivers are
resolved quickly?
