Right to Vote on Taxes Act
Page 13

characterized as charges or assessments, shall be classified as
assessments and shall not be imposed without compliance with
Section 4 of this Article.

[Annotation: Requires standby charges to go through assessment procedures. If a
current standby charge is in the nature of an assessment, it may take advantage of
the current exemptions for assessments. If not, the levy would have to be reimposed
as an assessment and meet all requirements of Section 5 or cease to be collected.]

(5) No fee or charge may be imposed for general governmental
services including, but not limited to, police, fire, ambulance or
library services where the service is available to the public at large
in substantially the same manner as it is to property owners.

[Annotation: This would prohibit the imposition of parcel “charges” for general
governmental services. The purpose of this provision is to reverse those levies, such
as the County of Los Angeles’ parcel “charge” for library services irrespective of use
of library services.]

Reliance by an agency on any parcel map including, but not limited to,
an assessor's parcel map, may be considered a significant factor in
determining whether a fee or charge is imposed as incident of property
ownership for purposes of this Article. In any legal action contesting the
validity of a fee or charge, the burden shall be on the agency to
demonstrate compliance with this Article.

(c) Voter Approval for New or Increased Fees and Charges. Except for fees
or charges for sewer, water, and refuse collection services, no property
related fee or charge shall be imposed or increased unless and until such
fee or charge is submitted and approved by a majority vote of the
property owners of the property subject to the fee or charge or, at the
option of the agency, by a two-thirds vote of the electorate residing in
the affected area. The election shall be conducted not less than 45 days
after the public hearing. An agency may adopt procedures similar to
those for increases in assessments in the conduct of elections under this
subdivision.

[Annotation: Exemption for sewer, water and refuse collection is for voter approval
only. Such fees still must meet all of the five substantive requirements of paragraph
(b). Exemption is based on philosophy of attempting to reverse the end-runs around
Proposition 13. Since water, sewer and refuse collection fees pre-date proposition
13, they were exempted from voter approval]
