Right to Vote on Taxes Act
Page 8

payments, the reason for such assessment and the basis upon
which the amount of the proposed assessment was calculated,
together with the date, time, and location of a public hearing on
the proposed assessment. Each notice shall also include, in a
conspicuous place thereon, a summary of the procedures
applicable to the completion, return and tabulation of the ballots
required pursuant to subdivision (d), including a disclosure
statement that the existence of a majority protest, as defined in
subdivision (e), will result in the assessment not being imposed.

[Annotation: Notice requirements for assessments have been substantially liberalized
in recent years. Proposition 218 would require mailed notice, not just publication in
a newspaper. Mailed notice would also include a ballot for to be returned by the
property owners]

(d) Each such notice mailed to owners of identified parcels within the
district shall contain a ballot which includes the agency's address
for receipt of any such ballot once completed by any owner
receiving such notice whereby each such owner may indicate his
or her name, reasonable identification of the parcel and support
Or opposition to the proposed assessment.

(e) The agency shall conduct a public hearing upon the proposed
assessment not less than 45 days after mailing the notice of the
proposed assessment to-record owners of each identified parcel.
At the public hearing, the agency shall consider all protests
against the proposed assessment and tabulate the ballots. The
agency shall not impose an assessment if there is a majority
protest. A majority protest exists if, upon the conclusion of the
hearing, ballots submitted in opposition to the assessment exceed
the ballots submitted in favor of the assessment. In tabulating
the ballots, the ballots shall be weighted according to the
proportional financial obligation of the affected property.

[Annotation: Under Proposition 218, assessments may not be imposed without
majority approval of property owners. Ballots are weighted according to financial
obligation. Several existing statutes call for the “weighting” of votes so this does not
represent a significant change in the law. In any event, this is consistent with policy
of permitting those financially obligated to pay to impact the decision of whether the
levy is imposed. Moreover, under existing law, the failure to file a protest counts as
a ‘yes” vote. This changes the current methodology by subjecting the levy to a
simple majority vote of those property owners who return ballots.]
