QUESTION:

ANSWER:

QUESTION:

ANSWER:

QUESTION:

ANSWER:

QUESTION:

the ordinance, this parkowner initiative would require that your city and county
allow a full cost of living increase in your rent every year.

If I live in a rent-control area which protects the buyer of my mobilehome from
any unreasonable rental increase, would my ordinance be affected by passage
of this initiative?

Yes. As written, this initiative states that whenever you sell your mobilehome
there would not be any rent control on your space after the date of the sale. A
parkowner would be legally authorized to increase rent to your buyer and your
mobilehome space would no longer be covered by the local rent control
ordinance. As written, the initiative says that at the time of sale, transfer, or
sublease of your mobilehome, that any rent control ordinance covering your
space would terminate, and there would no longer be rent control covering
your space.

If the city or county where I live does not currently have a mobilehome
ordinance, but we are working to get an ordinance passed in the near future,
would this initiative in any way affect the ability of my city or county to adopt
a mobilehome rent control ordinance in the future?

Yes. If the initiative were to be passed by voters in the State of California, no
city or county ordinance would be legally entitled to pass a mobilehome rent

_control ordinance in the future.

Doesn’t this initiative provide some rental assistance to low-income
mobilehome owners?

Yes. But the initiative sponsors have worded the “rental assistance” provision
so that you would be entitled to assistance only if you qualify under section 8
very low income guidelines. As written, the ordinance provides that by mid-
December of each year, if you believe you are financially qualified under

_ section 8 very low income guidelines, you would have to submit written proof

of your income to the parkowner. If you qualify, the rental assistance would
only be a ten percent reduction below average rents then charged in your
mobilehome park. For example, if a parkowner has increased rents so that they
are $100 per month higher than they should be in your park, it is doubtful that
a ten percent reduction in rent would provide meaningful assistance to the
mobilehome owner who has limited income.

Does every mobilehome park in the State have to offer the rental assistance as
spelled out in the initiative?
