MARK S. PASH, CFP

“Economic Vision For the 21st Century”
Dear Friend:

I need your support! My concerns are your take home wages, jobs, business and
professional opportunities. These are some of the reasons I have decided to run for
the 24th Congressional District. I am not a lawyer nor a politician like the other
major candidates. I am just a citizen, a Certified Financial Planner who is tired of
hearing the confusing and contradictory speeches of our leaders and economists.

The other candidates are well intentioned people who favor many worthwhile
programs. I am the only one who offers THE SOLUTION OF HOW TO PAY
FOR THEM. Our party is losing power because we are not electing individuals
with economic and management backgrounds, who can point out the true financial
benefits of our Democratic systems. -I have debated the other candidates; their
monetary understanding and vision is insufficient to defeat the Republicans in the
election and Congress.

Don’t be swayed by a very small number of our party’s machine, elected
officials, and special interests who automatically endorse career politicians
without even interviewing or reading the platforms of the other candidates.

You will not see any other campaign mailers, endorsements, signs, buttons or give-
aways from me. I have sent this extensive letter, not some slick campaign slogans,
so you can make your decision with as much information as possible.

The main reason for this mailing is to get your vote on March 26. The second
reason is to get you to tell your neighbors, friends, and relatives to consider me as
the candidate with a vision for the future.

I have spent the last 25 years in my practice helping
people just like you structure their financial well-being.

I am very proud of my work that is devoted to clients
from all walks of life, from their parents to their children
and grandchildren.

I want you basically to use me as your messenger to our
government that there is a better way to structure things.
There has always been one person to induce historical
change provoked by injustice, need, or a vision for
advancement

