to a single case that provides even the faintest suggestion that the court was considering overturning
this landmark decision.

Brad Bannon, CALPIRG's pollster summarizes their reaction to our concerns about whether their
measure will ever be enforced:

"Voters will never be ready for a complex set of proposals which cannot be
summarized in a sound bite....By enacting campaign finance reform, voters can take
advantage of an opportunity to say that they are fed up, that there is way too much
money in politics, and that the system is a mess and needs to be completely rebuilt."”

This 90's "feel good" send-a-message approach to reform concentrates on letting the voter vent
frustration and fight cynicism by passing a measure the US Supreme Court told all who would listen
in 1976 was unconstitutional. Even if it passes, its inability to be enforced sows the seeds of more
public cynicism.

Out-of-District Contribution Limits-

Last year a Federal District Court in Oregon decided a case involving an initiative which required that
90% of the money raised in a district election come from within the district. In ruling the measure
illegal, the court made it clear the issue wasn't whether the ordinance required 90% or 75% from
within the district:

"The Measure prohibits non-corrupt, out-of-district contributors from politically
associating with candidates running for state offices. Elected officials in state offices
impact all state residents, not just the candidate's constituents within his election
district. Therefore, the Measure impairs out-of-district residents from associating
with a candidate for state office who, if elected, will have a real and direct impact on
those persons."®

Campaign Contribution Limits-

Two national PIRG-sponsored reform initiatives involving $100 contribution limits were struck down
by federal courts last year. Citing the landmark US Supreme Court case in Buckley v. Valeo, the
courts in the Washington, DC case concluded:

"Because Initiative 41 severely limits political dialogue, and because it does so
without advancing a sufficiently important government interest by closely drawn
means, it impermissibly burdens candidates’ First Amendment right to freedom of
speech. ... The limits impermissibly burden contributors’ First Amendment Tight to
freedom of association..."*

2 Memorandum, From: Brad Bannon, Bannon Research to Doug
Phelps, Fund for Public Interest Research, February 10, 1995

3 Vannatta v. Keisling, (899 F.Supp. 488 (D.Or. 1995)

4 National Black Police Association v. District of Columbia
of Elections and Ethics (April, 19, 1996) Civ. No. 94-1476

3
