... and there is a difference.

The cornerstone of REPUBLICAN philosophy is the belief that each
man is responsible for his own place in our society. Individuals are
encouraged by the REPUBLICAN PARTY to work to secure the
benefits of society for themselves, their families, and for those who
are unable to care for themselves.

DEMOCRATS are more willing to subordinate individual rights to the
assumed needs of the group. They assume that society collectively
is responsible for each of its members. They place less emphasis on
individual enterprise and initiative.

GOVERNMENT AND THE GOVERNED
REPUBLICANS believe that government should be limited to doing
for people those things which they cannot do for themselves. The
right to determine individual destiny should lie in the hands of the
individual. Similarly, REPUBLICANS believe governmental power
and resources should be kept close to the people, through their
state and community leaders, rather than centralized in distant big
government.

Recent DEMOCRAT administrations have pushed for more and more
centralized power in Washington, with secondary consideration for
the rights of individual citizens and communities. This has led to
increasingly more federal controls and regimentation, often in the
hands of unelected bureaucrats, causing a severe erosion of local
government across the country. ‘

ECONOMIC POLICIES

REPUBLICANS believe in the competitive free-enterprise system.
Individuals must be free to use their talents. This is the key to per-
sonal and national prosperity. REPUBLICANS believe that the only
limits to an individual's opportunity to succeed are the limits of his
own initiative and enterprise. aid

DEMOCRATS say that the economy is too complicated to be left
to free enterprise alone, and therefore must be subjected to ever-
increasing controls by the federal government. They say that we are
“entering an era of limitations’ and therefore must lower our
individual economic expectations.

eat ala

FOREIGN POLICY

REPUBLICANS believe that peace and freedom can be protected
only if America maintains a defense force strong enough to deter
any aggressor. REPUBLICANS turn away from the paternalism of the
50's and encourage other nations to shoulder responsibility for their
own problems. REPUBLICANS oppose unnecessary intervention in
the internal affairs of other nations and stress helping our friends
around the globe develop the skills and strengths necessary to
protect themselves.

The DEMOCRAT party has vacillated between extreme isolationism,
intervention and confrontation tactics in cases like Vietnam, Cuba
and Korea. This inconsistent foreign policy has confused our allies
and encouraged our potential enemies.

GOVERNMENT SPENDING AND TAXES
REPUBLICANS constantly strive to cut governmental spending and to
eliminate costly, overlapping and unnecessary governmental pro-
grams. Because REPUBLICANS believe that the individual should
control his and government's pocketbook, they believe that tax
increases should be voted upon by the people.

The DEMOCRAT view is that the federal government knows how and

“where to spend money for local needs better than elected com-

munity leaders, and federal bureaucrats should continue to control
the flow of funds to the states and localities and dictate how the
taxpayers money will be spent.

THE FUTURE

America has prospered under the two-party system because one
party has always served to check the excesses of the other. Often,
both parties agree on the problems, less often they agree on the
solutions. The root of most of their differences is perspective:
DEMOCRATS tend to stress a powerful, centralized bureaucracy
aimed at solving local and national problems from the top down — a
method which, after 40 years of trial is a proven failure.

REPUBLICANS believe in solutions which are decided upon and
implemented by the people themselves, through their locally
elected representatives. REPUBLICANS believe that the solution of
America’s problems lies in the greatness of the American people.

yes, there is a difference!!!
