The Honorable Tom Hayden
April 5, 1995

Page 2

County in the north to San Diego County in the south. These studies included
the use of capture and radio telemetry marking of individual lions over multiple
years in 300-800 square mile areas. In addition, intensive habitat surveys were
conducted to document the presence of lions in areas adjacent to study sites.

- Question: Is there any evidence that you can provide or cite to indicate that the

mountain lion population has increased in California since 1990?

Response: There have been no statewide studies since 1990 which would
provide a scientific basis for documenting increases in the statewide lion
population. However, there is substantial evidence to corroborate increasing
trends in a number of areas. This evidence includes, but is not limited to,
increases in mountain lion activity associated with property damage to livestock
and domestic pets, mountain lions entering areas which were urbanized long ago,
and a substantial number of sightings of mountain lions in areas where they were
seldom if ever seen prior to the 1990s. A substantial increase in the number of
lions verified in areas which were long ago urbanized strongly suggests an
increasing population. These areas include: San Fernando Valley, Los Angeles
County; Oceanside, San Diego County; Orangevale, Sacramento County; and
Chico, Butte County. a te

Mountain lions recently using areas which have long been in urban and
agricultural uses strongly suggests lions are expanding their range in California.
This observation, coupled with the stable-to-increasing population densities in
traditional lion habitat, also suggests an iricreasing population in some areas of the
State since 1990. =

Increases and verified damage to livestock and pets has also been noted in rural
counties where human populations and livestock grazing patterns have not
changed significantly since 1990. The counties include Inyo, Lassen, Modoc, and
Mono. This evidence strongly suggests an increasing lion population and, in some
cases, an expanding range. s

In addition, field studies using capture and marking with radio telemetry
equipment conducted in Orange County during the early 1990s, as well as
ongoing studies in Inyo and Mono counties since 1990, resulted in documented
mountain lion population densities higher than previously estimated from
observations of tracks and other sign of the presence of lions. The best objective
information suggests that the increasing trend in mountain lion densities and

extent of their range is a continuation of the trend which most likely started in the
early to mid 1970s.
