INTRODUCING THE NATURAL LAW PARTY

Time for Change

Americans are tired of political gridlock, campaign mudslinging, and special-interest
control of our political process. According to a recent Times-Mirror poll, over two thirds of
Americans now favor the creation of a major third political party—more than twice as many
as in 1992, when Ross Perot won 20 million votes. Due to this massive increase in public
support, 1996 is being called “The Year of the Third Party.”

Third-Party Contributions

According to many scholars, 90% of the key ideas that have shaped our democracy, such
as the abolition of slavery and a woman’s right to vote, came from third parties. As former
Chief Justice Earl Warren said,

All political ideas cannot and should not be channeled into the programs of our two major parties.
History has amply proved the virtue of political activity by minority, dissident groups, which
innumerable times have been in the vanguard of democratic thought and whose programs were
ultimately accepted. The absence of such voices would be a symptom of grave illness in our society.

The Natural Law Party is introducing new ideas, new principles, and new solutions. A
vote for the Natural Law Party is not a wasted vote; it is your vote of conscience for a better
nation.

The Presidential Ticket

Dr. John Hagelin, 1996 Natural Law Party presidential candidate, is a world-renowned
quantum physicist and educator who has worked for the past 12 years to introduce into
government cost-effective, prevention-oriented solutions to America’s pressing problems.

Dr. Hagelin received his Ph.D. from Harvard University and conducted theoretical physics
research at the European Laboratory for Particle Physics (CERN) and the Stanford Linear
Accelerator Center (SLAC). He has authored over 60 scientific research articles, including
some of the most cited references in the physical sciences.

As recent Director of the Institute of Science, Technology and Public Policy, a public
policy think-tank in Fairfield, lowa, Dr. Hagelin headed a nationwide collaborative effort
with scientists from other leading universities and research institutions to seek out, verify,
and demonstrate cost-effective solutions to critical social problems of health care, crime,
education, etc., and shape them into public policy. Dr. Hagelin is currently committing his
full-time effort to his election campaign and to building the Natural Law Party around the
nation. :

Dr. Mike Tompkins, Dr. Hagelin’s vice-presidential running mate, is one of the
principal founders of the Natural Law Party. He helped develop the Party’s platform and
ran as its vice-presidential candidate in 1992. He has worked with government for 17 years
to introduce prevention-oriented solutions into government and has edited ten books
describing these scientifically verified programs.

Dr. Tompkins graduated from Harvard with honors in 1970 and received his doctorate
from Maharishi European Research University (MERU) in Switzerland in 1984. He is a
former National Merit Scholar and Presidential Scholar.

Dr. Tompkins served most recently as Associate Director of the Institute of Science,
Technology and Public Policy, helping to coordinate the Institute’s nationwide
collaborative effort to identify, verify, and implement solutions to the nation’s critical
problems.
