a: Local Projects - - $25 million

Provides loans for feasibility studies and projects to increase water supplies in rural counties. Funds may
not be used for construction of on-stream storage reservoirs. Funds could be used under certain conditions
for diversion from existing facilities. (Benefits: counties with a population of 250,000 or less)

4. River Parkways Program - - $27 million

Provides funds to acquire land and develop parkways along river corridors. These parkways will be
developed under existing laws which provide the authorities and the conditions under which these
parkways may be developed. (Benefits: statewide through increased recreational opportunities)

5. Sacramento Valley Water Management & Habitat Protection - - $25 million

Provides funds for water management and habitat improvements in the Sacramento Valley, including
conjunctive use, conservation and fish protection projects. This program is part of the State Water
Resources Control Board’s implementation of the 1995 water quality control plan for the Bay/Delta.
(Benefits: directly Sacramento Valley and indirectly all delta dependent areas)

CALFED Bay-Delta Ecosystem Restoration Program
(Chapter 7, $390 million)

These funds will be used to finance specific measures defined by the CALFED process that result in
environmental restoration and improvements in fish and wildlife habitat in the Bay/Delta ecosystem.
These measures are common to all of the long-term solutions that CALFED has proposed. Before the
funds are expended, a programmatic environmental impact statement and environmental impact report
will be completed and a state and federal cost-share agreement will be executed. The Secretary of
Resources will annually review a schedule of expenditures developed by CALFED that assures balance in
water quality, water supply and environmental actions in the Bay/Delta ecosystem. Annual financial
progress reports to the legislature will also be required. (Benefits: all bay-delta dependent water users)

Flood Control Subvention Program
(Chapter 8, $60 million)

Provides funds for the State’s share of the non-federal costs for flood control and prevention projects for
claims on hand up to 6/30/96. These State funds leverage federal and local funds necessary to complete
currently authorized flood control projects that have valid written claims against the State. The purpose of
this public safety program is to prevent the potential loss of life and protect property through the
completion of locally sponsored flood control projects. (Benefits: Contra Costa, Fresno, Kern, Los
Angeles, Orange, Riverside, San Bernardino, San Diego, and Santa Clara)

7/29/96
