The alternative to Machiavellian politics is what Havel calls
“living in the truth,” a politics based on a compassionate
spiritual connectedness with other human beings, the whole
earth, and the mystery of the universe itself. Understanding
that each human being is subjective and unique means that
we must reject the bureaucratic mentality that reduces
individuals to replaceable cogs in government’s machinery.

This politics is not about maintaining incumbency for the
Prince, but about service, about aligning government with
the needs of people and the planet.

It is a remarkable irony that Richard Nixon was buried during
the same week that Nelson Mandela was elected president
of South Africa.

Richard Nixon was the leading symbol of Machiavelli’s creed
in our time. He built the Watergate State, a web of interest-
group intrigue designed to perpetuate an elite in power. In
Nixon’s global vision, Nelson Mandela was a hapless political
prisoner whose fate was unimportant compared to the larger
interest of preserving South Africa as a “strategic asset” of
American foreign policy. For Nixon, South Africa was
about gold, diamonds and anti-communism, not about the
oppression of humanity.

Nixon could not imagine that the soul of Nelson Mandela in
a cell on Robben Island would prove more powerful than

the police forces and atomic arsenal of the South African
state.

The Sixties was about greater enfranchisement and political
reform, but it was also about defending the human soul
against mutilation and denial.

14 Politics of the Spirit - A Dream of California

The final message of my dream is that we must realize
that life is not about conquering other people or other
frontiers, but about finding meaning in our own lives.

The California saga, in its negative sense, has been about
escaping other places to conquer new frontiers. In treating
other people, and the land itself, as alien objects to be
possessed and “developed,” the frontier mentality can leave
behind a trail of forgotten people and ruined landscapes.

The human price of our economic statistics should never be
forgotten. Every one percent of unemployment in America,
for example, is linked with 10,000 divorces.

For the majority who work, the price is similarly high. We
seem to be always speeding up our lives and working harder
in a futile attempt to find time for ourselves. We take
unprecedented quantities of drugs in an effort to cope. The
seven leading legal drugs in America include three for
hypertension, two for ulcers, and two for cholesterol and
angina .

The average working person has only 16 hours of leisure
time each week, down from 26 hours only 20 years ago.
With less time for ourselves, and less time for our children,
is it any wonder that we are drowning in pathologies of
desperation?

But there is a positive alternative to the frontier treadmill.
It is the alternative of realizing that we are “at home,” the
alternative of staying put, the alternative of the inner frontier
within our own lives and our own communities. To practice
what Jefferson called “ward government.” To become
“happier and better,” in Lord Bryce’s words. To be about

Politics of the Spirit - A Dream of California 15
