ADAM SCHIFF.

“We need dedicated, intelligent leaders like Adam
Schiff in the State Senate. He will fight to make our
schools great again - and help give me the tools to

do my part as a teacher.”
- Bill Crowfoot,
Pasadena Teacher/City Councilmember

Committed to quality education.

A solid education is the road to the American Dream.
California is a great state because California has had a first-
rate public school system. Now, California schools lag
behind those in the poorest southern states in key areas like
technology in the classroom. As a result, many of our
graduates cannot read, write or grasp the essential math
skills needed for the twentieth century workplace.

Adam Schiff attended public schools, and then went on to
Stanford University and Harvard Law School. He is
committed to restoring excellence in California schools. He
wants future generations to have the same opportunities to
improve their lives.

Adam Schiff will fight to reform education, so that students
get more individual attention and have up-to-date learning
materials. And he does more than just talk about it.

Adam has volunteered as a Mock Trial Coach for
Burbank High School for four years. Adam has
also been a Big Brother, and is proud to report
that the young man he has mentored for ten years
will be attending college this fall.

ADAM SCHIFF. proven crime fighter.

For six years, Adam Schiff served his country as a Federal
Criminal Prosecutor. With an impressive 100% conviction
record, Adam Schiff prosecuted corrupt public officials, drug

traffickers, illegal immigrant smugglers, and car jackers. In fact,

he prosecuted the first federal carjacking case in Los Angeles.

Adam has trained hundreds of officers in investigative
technique, here in the United States and around the world.
Adam Schiff is best known for successfully prosecuting the
famous Miller / FBI Soviet spy case. In 1993, Adam received
the Special Achievement Award for Sustained Superior
Performance from the U.S. Department of Justice.

US. Departn
SPECIA
ACHIEY
AWARD

Presented to

in

Superior Perfor

August 22,1993

‘eth hing

appreciation a

nent of Justice
L
"EMENT

Adam Schiff

ind recogn
Ognition of Sustai

ance of Duty

“Adam Schiff is the only candidate for State Senate

who actually has crime-fighting experience. We can

count on him to make public safety a top priority.”
- Janice Lowers, President,

Burbank Police Officers Association

ned
