INTRODUCTION

A wolf dressed in sheep’s clothing is prowling throughout the State of California.
Its name is "The Mobilehome Rent Assistance, Mobilehome Rent Control Restrictions, Initiative
Statute." It is an Initiative which was barely qualified for the March, 1996 statewide ballot by
a select group of mobilehome park owners who were unable to obtain their "special interest"
objectives in the courts or the California legislature. The backers of this phoney measure call
it the "California Mobilehome Fairness Initiative." But in reality, it is anything but fair. An
examination of the realities of mobilehome ownership shows why.

é Mobilehome living has become a widespread form of housing in California. The
* "trailers" of the post-World War II era have given way to the current form of manufactured
housing, which typically consists of double-wide or triple-wide sections joined together, and
which can include site-built garages, poured concrete porches and steps and substantial
landscaping. Mobilehome residents are defined as "homeowners" by the California Civil Code
and it is now recognized that mobilehome owners have a substantial investment in their
mobilehomes.

The term "mobilehome" has become a misnomer. Courts and commentators alike,
including the United States Supreme Court, have held that the inherent nature of mobilehome
construction has really made them "immobile."' It is a fact that more than 90% of sisal
once sited, are never moved for the duration of their usable life.”

The modern mobilehome is not a depreciating asset, but instead retains its value
over decades. It is maintained, improved and cared for just like a conventional site-built
home.’ The one difference concerns the average age of mobilehome owners. Typically, they
are retired or living on fixed incomes, and the mobilehome represents their largest or only asset.
In 1988, the average age of mobilehome owners occupying some 3,500 mobilehome spaces in the
City of Escondido was 64.4 years.‘

Mobilehome owners, and their substantial investments, are in a unique and
vulnerable position. Their homes typically sit upon land owned by someone else; i.e., the "park
owner." From this union of property interests there arises a rental relationship which puts the
park owner in the position of a landlord and the homeowner in the position of a tenant. As
mobilehome parks have become a lucrative .business, mobilehome park rents in most
metropolitan areas have risen dramatically.

Rising rents place the mobilehome owner in a position of great risk, since a

homeowner faced with a large rent increase has few options. Due to a lack of vacant spaces,
the mobilehome typically cannot be moved. Pad vacancies are at about 3 percent statewide and

' Yee v. City of Escondido (1990)
503 Uisseee, 12'S. Ct. 1522, 018 L.Ed 200053.

2 California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD),

_Mobilehome Parks in California (1986), p. 19.
3 "Better Way to Appraise Mobile Homes," Banking (Oct., 1978), p. 118.

“ San Diego Association of Governments, City of Escondido Mobile Home Needs
Survey (1988), p. 5

eee ee ——__<<<<<cki
