For Immediate Release Contact: Bob Weiner or Lisa
September 5, 1996 Wiederlight/ (202) 395-6618

WHITE HOUSE DRUG POLICY DIRECTOR MCCAFFREY ISSUES
STATEMENT AGAINST LEGALIZATION OF MARIJUANA. :

General McCaffrey joins alt federal agencies, along with major medical and health
organizations, in rejecting the use of marijuana for medical applications. No medical research has
shown marijuana to be safe, effective or therapeutically supetior to other substances that have
fewer adverse side effects. Furthermore, legal alternatives to the use of marijuana are available.

Many organizations that advocate the legalization of marijuana cynically calculate that the
public will support further legalization if this substance ix first approved for medical purposes,
However, the claims for medical marijuana do not bear up under scrutiny. Major medical and
health organizations, like the American Medical Association (AMA), American Cancer Society,
National Multiple Sclerosis Association, American Academy of Ophthalmology, condemn
production, use, and sale of marijuana and maintain that marijuana should not be legalized.
Synthetic tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the primary psychoactive ingredient in marijuana, is
currently availabje in pill form for the treatment of HIV Wasting Syndrome and chemotherapy-
induced nausea: Moreover, laboratory research in animals and humans has shown that use of
marijuana, which is more carcinogenic than tobacco, compromises brain function, the immune
system, the lungs, and hormonal responses to stress and metabolic change,

The California proposition is dangerous and wrong. First, it would make marijuana
available to the public without following the scientific processes of the Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) for approval and regulation, No consumer protection would be in place,
Second, the initiative poses a serious threat to the effectiveness of drug enforcement and
prevention. The California attorney general and other prominent law enforcement officials assert
that Proposition 215 will provide loopholes for drug dealers to avoid arrest and prosecution,
Prevention professionals claim the proposition will damage efforts to convince young people to
remain drug-free. The proposition sends our children the message that marijuana use is beneficial,
that marijuana is medicine. Finally, the proposition does not specify what patients or illnesses may
require the use of medicinal marijuana, It legalizes marijuana for “any other illness for which
marqjuana provides relief” without naming any diseases. The proposition does not even require a
written prescription or medical examination. Anyone with the oral recommendation of a physician
can grow, possess, and use marijuana. ;

. As medicine, this proposition is unwarthy of the Middle Ages. As politics, it is dishonest.
And its attempt to exploit human suffering, in the effort to legalize an illicit drug, is shameful.
The voters in this country should not be expected to decide which medicines are safe and
effective. These functions properly belong to the FDA. Consumer protection is not served by
this proposition. Passage would set a dangerous precedent. The decision for or against approval
should be based on scientific proof. .

