Sample column for state federation presidents to send to newspapers for publishing on their
op-ed pages. This column focuses on public education and should be retyped with a short,
introductory cover letter:

What is at stake for education in the upcoming election and how would the candidates
approach this issue? President Clinton has stressed education and training as the best way for
Americans to advance themselves and secure high-wage, high-skill jobs. A quick look at Bob
Dole’s record on education should serve as a guide for the direction in which he would lead us.

Throughout his 35 years in Congress, Bob Dole has led the fight against federal investment in
public education.

@ In 1993, the budget offered by Bob Dole as a substitute to President Clinton's plan would have
cut elementary, secondary and vocational programs by $2.7 billion.

@ The Dole-Gingrich budget would have slashed Head Start. This was not Dole's first attempt to
kill the nationally recognized, highly successful program. In 1965, Dole voted against the original
bill that established the program.

@ Although Dole has talked a lot in his campaign about drug use among teens, he proposed last
year to cut the Safe and Drug-Free Schools program by 55%.

®@ Bob Dole supported efforts in Congress last year to slash the student loan program and Pell
Grants by $5 billion.

Now, candidate Bob Dole has gone even further in his opposition to public schools. In his
acceptance speech at the the Republican National Convention, Bob Dole outlined his vision for the
future of public education. Dole is proposing "opportunity scholarships." If this sounds like a good
idea, that's because a lot of research went into making a silk purse out of this sow's ear.
"Opportunity scholarships" used to be called vouchers by far-right Republicans until their pollsters
told them that the majority of voters opposed vouchers. Now they refer to them as "opportunity
scholarships." But by whatever name, they still amount to the same thing -- using taxpayer
revenues to subsidize the operators of private schools.

Bob Dole claims his plan will cure all of the problems facing public schools, but there is a lot
he is not telling voters:

®@ Dole's plan would create a huge new federal entitlement program that will cost taxpayers and
public schools more than $2.5 billion. How public schools are supposed to improve with less
funding is something Bob Dole has yet to explain.

® Dole's plan would not require participating private and religious schools to meet any set of
academic standards in exchange for their federal subsidy. This would open the door to massive
fraud and abuse of taxpayer money.

®@ Dole's plan would allow private school operators to choose which students to admit and which
to reject. Private school operators would be free to deny admission to handicapped students who
might cost the school owners more than the average student to educate.

® Worst all, Dole's plan draws attention away from proven ideas for improving the quality of
education in our schools.

There is another course to improving public education that has been proven to work. Last
year, the American Federation of Teachers (AFT) embarked on this course when it launched its

(continued)
