Health Care

Bob Dole Favors Common Sense, Free Market
Health-Care Reforms

Losing health insurance coverage or facing obstacles to
obtaining such coverage is a real concern for many Americans.
We need insurance reform — but the answer is not a federal
government takeover of the health care industry. Bob Dole
supports consumer choice, open enroliment and portability of
medical insurance

In 1994, Dole introduced a health care reform bill which had no
price controls, no mandates and no taxes. The bill took on a
common sense, free market approach to health-care reform.
focusing primarily on insurance reform, while offering subsidies
to help low-income Americans buy health insurance

As President, he will:

* Seek ways to make health care more accessible and
affordable for all Americans.

+ Ensure that individuals who change jobs do not lose their
coverage or face pre-existing condition limitations.

+ Give self-employed individuals the same tax deductions that
large corporations have to buy health insurance.

+ Make Medical Savings Accounts a real option available to all
Americans.

+ Support efforts to make community and home based care
more readily available.

Medicaid Should Serve Low-Income
Families in a More Effective Way

Medicaid reform is crucial The states should be given the
opportunity to redesign their programs without the heavy hand
of the federal government, so that they can serve low-income
families and the disabled in a more efficient and effective way.

As President, Bob Dole will overhaul the nation’s Medicaid
system by giving greater control to state governments who best
know the needs of the low-income and disabled populations in
their state

Bob Dole Will Propose Innovative Solutions to
Address Long-Term Care Needs

Bob Dole believes that access and funding for long-term care
is as serious a problem as any before us. As President, Bob
Dole will:

horived ard ;
$10 First Serecs, Northeast * Suzze 300 *

+ Propose a tax deduction for families who care for their elderly
parents or family members.

$ Encourage the development of private long-term care
insurance and provide government help for those wishing to
purchase the coverage but unable to afford it.

+ Expand the options for long-term care beyond institutional
care to include home, hospice and community-based care
alternatives.

+ Support efforts to ensure the quality of nursing home care
and to adequately protect against spousal impoverishment.

Bob Dole Will Save Medicare from Bankruptcy

Bob Dole is committed to protecting, improving and
strengthening Medicare. Last spring, a study supported by three
members of Bill Clinton's own Cabinet showed that Medicare
will be bankrupt in five years. Bob Dole will act now to save
Medicare for future generations. As President, Bob Dole will:

+ Lead the effort to save Medicare from insolvency —
guaranteeing that Medicare will be available to future
generations.

+ Support giving Medicare beneficiaries the right to choose the
kind of coverage that best fits their own priorities and needs.
Bob Dole thinks that they should be given the same kind of
choices that federal government employees have had for years.

+ Advocate innovative ideas like Medical Savings Accounts and
managed care, as well as traditional fee-for-service plans

+ Recommend the establishment of a blue-ribbon bipartisan
advisory commission — similar to the one he served on in 1983
that saved Social Security — to solve the Medicare crisis.

A Better America

As President, Bob Dole will use common sense solutions to
reform the health care industry. Americans won't fear losing
their health care benefits when they leave their jobs. States
will be given the freedom to reform Medicaid. And Americans
in need of long-term care will have more options.

emg 6.
cnirgron, I

Robert Lightniser, Treasurer

£202) 44-6400 » hutp:/huurw dolekemp96.0rg

20002

920 bint Sorees, Nowthe te 500 * Wesrngznn. 1

‘9S, Robert Lighthieen, Ireasurer

IC 20002 * 202} ¢iwSS00 © Hip liurienzdoiekempy6.org
