CALIFORNIANS FOR

Balanced Wildlife Management

Proposition 197: Managing the California Mountain Lion

OQ Ofthe 9 serious attacks confirmed by the State Department of Fish and Game in this century, 6 of these have
occurred since the lion received its special protections in Proposition 117.

O Current law, by prohibiting all proactive lion management techniques, has prevented the Department of Fish
and Game from making any attempts to address the growing lion population. The only tool left to the Department
is the use of Depredation permits which allow for the killing of an offending lion after it has been proven by the
department that damage has been done.

OQ According to Department, over half of the depredation permits issued in the last 23 years have been issued
since the lion received its “specially Protected Mammal” status in 1990. This increased number of permits
illustrates the serious nature of mountain lion population growth.

OQ Aswritten, Proposition 197 would require the Department to conduct an exhaustive three year study of the
mountain lion here in California. It would also require the Department to prepare regional management plans
based on two specific goals: provide for public health and safety and the protection of other animals (including
domestic and wild species), and preserve the mountain lion species itself. Further, the measure prohibits the
Department from using management tools that are not consistent with that plan.

OQ The mountain lion population has skyrocketed in recent years. Although no studies have been conducted by
the Department since 1988, growth estimates from other states would project that the mountain population has
more than doubled since that time.

QO The number of lion sightings in Los Angeles, Orange, and San Diego counties has increased dramatically
since Prop. 117 banned the management of the mountain lion population. Lion sightings now occur daily.

O As aresult of their unchecked population growth, lions are.now forced to search for food in new areas. They
are now regular visitors in foothill suburbs and small rural cities.

O In the last two years, lions have eaten over 500,000 wild deer and consumed nearly $2,000,000 in livestock.
This is not to mention the countless small pets killed around the State in recent years by these predators.

OQ The California mountain lion's hunting practices are placing endangered species such as the Big Horn Sheep
at serious risk in the state.

QO Proposition 197 is supported by a broad coalition of lion victim organizations, ranchers, farmers, conservation
groups, recreational groups, and environmental groups including the California Farm Bureau; the California
Chamber of Commerce; the California Cattlemen's Association; and the California Woolgrowers Association.

OQ Prop. 197 was placed on the March, 1996 ballot by the Legislature on September 15, 1995. The vehicle for
placing it on the ballot was SB 28, which passed the Assembly on a bi-partisan 44-30 vote and the Senate 26-8. If
passed by the voters it will change the legislative vote requirement in Proposition 117 from a 4/5 majority to a
simple majority on policy issues, just like other legislation dealing with state policy.

O Half of California lands are considered prime mounts lion territory. Lions live in most of California's 58
counties.

CALIFORNIANS FOR BALANCED WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT
910 SUNRISE AVENUE, SUITE A1-334
ROSEVILLE, CA 95661
(916) 783-8837
