But why build an economy around bellboys?, we should
answer. "Why not bellboys who study at community college
at night to move along to more rewarding jobs?

That’s what my father did. He was a hotel doorman who
went to college for two years, became a corporate accountant,
could buy a home, send me to college, and end his life
feeling that he’d accomplished something. How many fathers
can feel that way about their prospects today?

The implication of the downsizing doctrine is that education
should be adjusted to the needs of business and that business
simply won’t need many more college-educated
Californians.

This is a complete reversal of the promise of the 60s when
the traditional view of higher education as a privilege was
rejected for the idea of higher education as a right. Thena
new generation in a new world needed a liberal college
education for their advancement, just as an earlier generation
in the 1940s needed high school education instead of just
elementary schooling.

Seven million Americans enrolled in colleges and universities
in the 1960s, the largest numbers in our history. California
led the way, building campuses everywhere and giving the
idea of community colleges to the world. The idea that

college learning should only serve the narrow and short-°
term needs of commerce was rejected for the idea that |

education had an inherent value for the individual and society,
introducing us to the wider world.

We should reject a return to the dangerous idea that we

cannot afford more education. The only thing more
expensive than education, Thomas Jefferson wrote, is

4 Politics of the Spirit - A Dream of California

ignorance.

In my dream I see schoolrooms as exploratoriums like the
pioneering exhibition you have here in San Francisco, or
the work of SIGKids, a forum for video and graphic projects
recently featured in Wired magazine. We should shift the
priority of our huge entertainment industry from escapism
to education. Currently more is spent on commercials in
America than on public schools. According to Russell
Jacoby, while our urban school classrooms are overcrowded,
there are 16 square feet of malls for every person in America.
And while teachers lack modern technology, in the past five
years Americans purchased 51 million microwaves, 85
million color televisions, 48 million VCRs and 23 million
cordless phones.

I dream of students traveling through multimedia technology
to the outer expanses of the Milky Way, the interior of the
atom, the villages of Poland, Laos or El Salvador from which
their parents and parents’ parents came.

The computer revolution which exploded in the 60s has
transformed the possibilities of learning, yet our school
structures remain caught in the paradigms of the past. Our
children already have made the transition to the Information
Age in the ways they understand and communicate. They
know more than their parents or teachers about CD-ROM.

These kids need meaning in addition to technology. We
need to invent schoolrooms that are more interesting than
video arcades. In the paper the other day, I came across
just this sentiment from a youngster who was engaged in a
multimedia project in his classroom. “It’s more interesting
than Nintendo,” he said.

Politics of the Spirit - A Dream of California 5
