work that serves as a magnet for more immigrants to.cross
the border.

Beyond the pool of illegal immigrants, there are millions of
legal immigrants who are becoming the new middle class of
California. As Kotkin again points out, the ten most common
names of home buyers in California include Lee, Nguyen,
Garcia, Rodriguez, Martinez and Wong. In Orange County
among new home buyers, the Nguyens outnumber the Smiths
by two to one.

Our experiment with cultural diversity can set a powerful
example to the world with California becoming a new center
of trade and commerce. But we can do so only by utilizing
the energy represented by our diversity, not by perpetuating
the politics of fear. Kotkin, quoting the French historian
Fernand Braudel, reminds us that historically “commerce
grows wherever the spirit of tolerance convenes.”

The third message of my dream is that work in the future
must restore the California environment instead of
destroying it.

We spend billions annually simply for the fossil fuels wasted
and hours lost while we are stalled in freeway traffic. We
use up and throw away packaging that lasts 400 years ina
landfill in order to keep products on supermarket shelves so
we can eat them in two minutes. We risk our life savings on
medical bills while the U.S. Centers for Disease Control
says that over half of the diseases in America are preventable.

The best thinker on this subject in California is Paul Hawken,

author of The Ecology of Commerce. California alone

produces five percent of the emissions creating global
warming. As Hawken writes, “we indulge in a blowout

8 Politics of the Spirit - A Dream of California

sale of hydrocarbons.”

We are adrift between the petrochemical age and the
Ecological Age. We need to return California to the global
environmental leadershp that began under Jerry Brown. Just
20 years ago utility companies were forecasting the need
for 40 new nuclear power plants. Those wild fantasies
were put to rest by visionary leadership. We have saved
billions of dollars as a result utilities today have invested in
conservation, renewable resources and clean car programs
which their management would have rejected as mad
environmentalism only a few years ago.

As I have proposed, we need to go further and faster. We
need to build a clean car and clean transportation industry in
California by enforcing the clean air mandate and wisely
spending the $163 billion in transit funds that our voters
have generously approved.

We need to reduce the consumption of energy by at least 50
percent in the next 50 years. Energy efficiency creates four
times the jobs as building new power plants. We will never
become “competitive” with Japan or Germany while we
waste twice the energy they do per dollar’s worth of
production.

We need to see the potential of jobs in telecommunications
to improve the quality of life and reduce the pollution and
stress of commuting. Internet is growing at a rate of 15
percent each month; at the present rate it will have 700
million people on-line in the year 2000. The number of
telecommuters in the U.S. has increased from 4 million to
8.3 million since 1990. Half the California workforce could
telecommute at least part of their time. Not only is it good
for people to work in their home or nearby, but the savings

Politics of the Spirit- A Dream of California 9
